Accommodation
        Preston
* Derwent, Douglas, Pendle, Ribble, Roeburn and Whitendale
* We have a wide range of accommodation options at our Preston Campus. Whichever hall you choose to live in you’ll be right in the heart of campus. You'll be close to your lectures, our on-campus gym and the city centre.
We guarantee a place in halls for all new full-time students studying in Preston.
* * Included in all our halls
* Bills
* Wi-Fi / Ethernet ports
* Single bed 
* 24/7 security
* Oven/cooker
* White goods
* Launderette
* Residential team on-site


How much does our univeristy accommodation cost?
Our average monthly rent is the 3rd cheapest in the UK and the cheapest in the North West (Save the Student, 2023). And we're the most affordable university in the country according to The Times (2023). 


Prices - per person per week
Scroll or swipe on small screens to see all table columns


Preston Campus
Accommodation        Room type        Price        Number of people per flat
Derwent Hall        Economy standard        £85        5 or 6
Douglas Hall        Economy standard        £85        4
Pendle Hall        Self-contained or twin flats        
From £117 - £149


1 or 2 (one flat has three bedrooms)
Ribble Hall (economy)        Economy standard        £85        6
Ribble Hall (premium)


Premium standard        £99        5
Roeburn Hall        En-suite        £125        5, 6 or 7
Whitendale (economy)        Economy standard        £85        4 or 5
Whitendale (premium)        Premium standard        £99        4


Life in university halls
Living on campus means joining a thriving community, with a range of events in halls from the moment you move in. You’ll feel at home from day one with our friendly on-site Residences Team on hand to help you settle into your new home.
You’ll also enjoy a wide range of activities and extra support, including:


A varied events programme of seasonal activities. These include Halloween, Christmas, movie nights and a moving in BBQ. It's perfect for making friends and relaxing during your down time.
Many of our halls have added extras such as fantastic green spaces, and common areas with TVs, games consoles and pool tables.
Close to comfy and warm social spaces on campus, as well as Lampworks in the Students' Union and the sports centre. These are great places to hang out with friends or get involved in on-campus activities.
A dedicated Residences Team office on-site to help with anything from a leaky tap to worries about your studies. They’ll be there for whatever you need.
24/7 security presence with CCTV in all halls, plus the SafeZone app where you can request urgent assistance.
Bills for gas, electricity and water are included in the rent, plus free internet and Wi-Fi.
With on-site bike racks and safe cycle lockers, it's never been easier to bring your bike to university.
Our Report + Support system means that you can anonymously report incidents. This includes bullying, harassment, sexual assault, domestic abuse, hate crime and discrimination.


Whatever your budget, you will find a variety of group-friendly accommodation when visiting Preston. Accommodation includes city centre stay-overs, suburban retreats, and countryside havens.


Find the right accommodation to suit your group visit in our Accommodation directory.


Join University of Central Lancashire Studentpad to get property alerts emailed directly to you whenever accommodation becomes available that matches what you are looking for! Whether it’s a student house, flat, lodging or shared housing; Studentpad will help you find your perfect student home in Preston. Please note: The search results of University of Central Lancashire Studentpad are restricted to university students only, to continue using the site please enter the password below. Please note: Passwords are case sensitive.
My Studentpad also lets you:
Access more features on the student message board
Create a shortlist of hot properties
Make property enquiries online directly through your Studentpad account.


Why use Accommodation for Students?
The widest choice of student accommodation available online.
Quickly make direct contact with the property to view or book your accommodation.
Established in 2000, home to reputable and safe student accommodation.
Free and simple to use.


Living in Preston as a student
The facilities at the University of Central Lancashire are excellent, too. Most of our academic buildings are new and have been purpose built for education. Our student halls, which are adjacent to campus, are also mostly new and are extremely popular with students. We also own and rent a number of residencies and small, terraced houses within a two mile radius of the University and so we can generally offer a place for all new students in University managed accommodation.


Here you will find details of Private rented accommodation offered by private landlords/letting agents in Preston including; student houses, student flats/apartments in Preston, bed-sits in Preston, larger housing schemes in Preston.


The amount you pay will depend on the type of student accommodation you choose. A shared house in Preston will cost you £93 per week. A halls of residence will cost, on average £108 per week, but could cost more depending on what type of room you select.


Most students look for shared housing in Preston from October, although there will be student accommodation available all year round. First year and international students generally start looking in January for halls of residence.


Accommodation for Students has the widest range of student accommodation currently available in Preston. This includes halls of residence, house shares, flats and apartments. You can enquire directly to your chosen accommodation or get more support through our live help team. AFS has accommodation across the whole city including Ashton and Ingol.


In Preston the standard length of contract is 46 weeks. However it is possible to have a longer or shorter agreement than this. Some halls of residence will only offer a 50 or 52 week tenancy agreement for example.


Yes, a selection of the student accommodation listed on AFS will offer short term stays. This is most often the case for halls of residence in Preston. Look out for the properties which have the short term let badge or filter your search by ‘letting period’.


This will depend on the type of property you choose. The most anyone can legally charge is 5 weeks rent. Some accommodation in Preston halls of residence will not require a deposit at all, while on average the deposit in a shared house in Preston will be £372.


All landlords and property managers in Preston are legally required to protect your deposit in a legally recognised tenancy deposit scheme. If you take care of your student accommodation you should have no problem getting your money back. You can check out some further information right here


Living with student housemates: 65 top tips for a successful house share.


Looking to enjoy yourself after a hard day’s studying at UCLan? Find your ideal accommodation for students in Preston here! With a small but very lively and much loved nightlife the city has a wide range of bars, night clubs and restaurants to suit all tastes! Well known for its café culture, Preston boasts numerous modern coffee shops and vintage teashops. When you stay in one of our student properties, you’ll be sure to find a spot that you love, where you can sit with your laptop or catch up with friends.


If culture is your thing this Lancashire City is the right place for you! You can take in the Harris Museum and Art Gallery, which is just 10 minutes from the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan). Preston is centrally located in the middle of Lancashire and if you love the great outdoors then you can enjoy the beautiful Riverside and Moor parks or you can take a short car bus journey to Preston's nearby moors, and forests, such as the stunning Beacon Fell Country Park inside the beautiful forest of Bowland.


The city is surrounded by outdoor adventure centres too so if you're keen on paintballing, gokarting or quadbiking then you won't have to travel far. But don't worry if you're more of a city person Preston also has some of the UK’s biggest cities just a short train ride away, making weekends away easy!


Preston's high street is packed with big shops and unique boutiques. Fishergate and Friargate shopping malls offer a wide variety of shops so you can find everything you need for university life and much more!




Part-time jobs
Here are a Few Sites to Find a Part-Time Job


https://www.flexjobs.com/


https://collegegrad.com/


https://findajob.dwp.gov.uk/search?f=30&loc=71571&q=working%20part%20time


https://www.reed.co.uk/jobs/part-time-jobs-in-preston-lancashire


https://www.totaljobs.com/jobs/part-time/in-preston_lancashire


https://uk.indeed.com/q-part-time-l-preston-jobs.html?vjk=95f421ab282dd07a


https://www.simplyhired.co.uk/search?q=part+time&l=preston


Why is Preston considered a good place to work?
Preston has a thriving job market with various employment opportunities across multiple sectors. The city was listed as one of the best 25 locations to work in the nation by research, underscoring the city’s expanding importance as a commercial location.


Another reason for such exponential growth is that Preston and Lancashire city struck a deal worth around £450 million. This deal involves new investments, infrastructure improvement and transport rehabilitation. Employment opportunities have skyrocketed, booming the local economy. With the way things are planned, the economy of Preston could grow to a staggering £1 billion in a few years. 


Apart from this deal, a new project has been initiated around the Preston City Centre. This new project involves the total renovation of the city station, which will include creating new offices and innovative landmarks. There will be a lot of employment opportunities and revenue generation via this project.


Recruitment Agencies
Reed - IT Specialist Recruitment
Reed has been solving technology recruitment challenges for over 60 years. Our consultants specialise in five practice areas: development and testing, infrastructure and security, business intelligence and data science, project management office and business change, and strategy and leadership. So, whatever position you're recruiting for, you'll work with a technology specialist offering expert guidance to source your ideal candidate.


View detailed information 
Covers: UK Wide | Contract, Part Time, Permanent, Temporary | Salaries £15k - £100k+


81 Fishergate, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 2UH


Nexgen Locum 
Nexgen Locum is a healthcare recruitment agency working across the United Kingdom, specialising in providing temporary, contract and permanent staff. We look beyond the obvious to deliver exciting & rewarding career opportunities in healthcare. We work closely with our NHS and Private Clients, and are able to respond at short notice with doctors, carers and allied staff of all grades and qualifications.


View detailed information 
Covers: UK | Contract, Part Time, Permanent, Temporary | Salaries from £17k - £100k+


Buckingham House, Glovers Court, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 3LS


Reed
Reed are here to help you take your next step in the world of work, whatever it is. From recruiting talented individuals across 20 sectors for a permanent, temporary, or interim role; to recruiting at scale, and screening, your local recruiter have a solution that will ensure your business thrives. Alternatively, if you're looking to take the next step in your career, or break into a completely new sector, our experts can help.


View detailed information 
Covers: UK Wide | Contract, Part Time, Permanent, Temporary | Salaries £15k - £100k+


81 Fishergate, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 2UH


AKTON Recruitment Group
Akton Recruitment is an international recruitment agency that operates across various industries including Oil & Gas, Built Environment, Industrial, Mining, Social Work, Professional Services, IT & Tech, and Energy & Utilities. They are headquartered in Preston, with another office in California. They are also a corporate member of the REC.


Ringway, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 2QD


Ginger Hospitality
With over 20 years of experience, Ginger Hospitality specialises in finding Chefs, Cooks, General Managers, and Front-of-House Managers at all levels for a variety of hospitality enterprises. They recruit for a variety of hospitality roles, for professional kitchens and brigades, on both a temporary and permanent basis. The company has worked with companies like Mytton Fold, Berkely Inns Limited, Belmond, Grove, Farncombe, and more.


Suite 11, Manor Court, Salesbury Hall, Preston, Lancashire, PR3 3XR


Lechley Associates
Established in 2003, Lechley Associates is a Construction specialist recruitment agency based in Lancashire that offers executive search and headhunting services to the Construction, Civil Engineering, Utilities, and Marine Infrastructure sectors. They recruit for a variety of roles such as Quantity Surveyor, Project Manager, Design Manager, Construction Director, Customer Success Executive, Estimator, and Architectural Technician.


Abacus House, Rope Walk, Preston, Lancashire, PR3 1NS


M2 Education Ltd
M2 Education is a staffing consultancy that provides Teaching professionals in the Education sector. They provide opportunities to candidates by recruiting them for roles such as Supply Teacher, Cover Supervisor, Tutor, Teaching Assistant, Nursery Nurse and Support Staff. The agency covers the North of England and they partnered with 2Resolve for training staff and schools. They are a CCS framework approved supplier and APSCo accredited.


2 Tustin Court, Preston, Lancashire, PR2 2YQ


NWES Recruitment
NWES Recruitment is a specialist agency that provides workforce solutions to the Industrial sector within the Lancashire and Merseyside area. Operating for over 30 years, they offer permanent and temporary placements for roles such as Welders, Agricultural Workers, Season Workers, Fork Lift Truck Drivers, Production Operatives, Warehouse Operatives, and Mechanics. The agency is REC-accredited and available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week.


Longton Business Park, Station Rd, Preston, Lancashire, PR4 5LE


Adecco hires for roles in industries as diverse as engineering and charity work. Whatever your speciality, we’ve got roles that are just right for you.


Retail jobs involve working in a retail environment, such as a store, supermarket or mall, and interacting with customers to sell goods and services. Retail jobs can range from entry-level positions, such as cashiers and sales associates, to management roles, such as store managers and assistant managers. Retail jobs require strong customer service skills, the ability to work in a fast-paced environment, and the ability to handle cash and card payments.


Retail jobs offer a variety of working hours, with some positions requiring evening and weekend work. Many retail jobs also provide on-the-job training to help employees develop their skills and advance in their careers. Retail jobs in the UK are widely available, with many big retailers and supermarket chains providing jobs for all levels of experience. Some of these retailers include Primark, Home Bargains, HMV and Boohoo.


With a stimulating and fast-paced environment, working in retail can be as rewarding as it is challenging. It provides a great chance to learn valuable life skills, like focus and communication, and will help you grow in an ever-changing and expanding industry.


If you’re ready to experience some major personal and interpersonal growth, consider these 17 retail jobs:


Types of Retail Stores
Before considering which retail position to apply for, you’ll need to think about what type of retail store suits your interests and needs.


Fashion & Accessories
Are you the type that religiously posts your #OOTD on Instagram? Maybe you love to help your friends pick the perfect outfit for any occasion? Fashion retail may be the perfect fit for you!


Grocery & Food
Either your friends are always praising you for your talent at picking a perfectly ripe avocado, or telling you to get out of the kitchen more often — well, what better way to spend time out of your happy place than in another happy place?


Home Goods & Furniture
Have a knack for interior design? Help customers improve their homes or fashion their dream rooms by working in home goods and furniture.


Gifts & Cards
If you are the type who always knows exactly what to get for your friends and family, whether it be for Christmas, an anniversary, or a birthday, then your skills will be tested through and through here.


Pet Care
If taking care of your dog, two cats, a parakeet, and betta fish is the thing that brings you true happiness, then pet care is the right retail store for you!


Types of Retail Jobs
Retail stores are like an intricate machine with lots of moving parts. After you’ve decided the type of store you’ll want to work at, you’ll have to decide what position you’d like to apply for. Here are the types of retail jobs that you can try:


1. Cashier
This is the position everyone thinks of when they hear “retail jobs.” It is hands-on, and you get a chance to communicate with customers of all types — yes, even the difficult ones.


2. Sales Associate
The job of a sales associate is, of course, to sell the store’s products! A great sales associate will go the extra mile to maintain excellent customer service and build trust between the store and the customer.


3. Store Manager
If you’re the responsible type who likes to handle everything at once, becoming a store manager may be right for you! You’ll need prior experience in retail and the more you know about every position that helps run a store, the better.


4. Buyer
A buyer is the representative for the store — you’re responsible for selecting and negotiating the goods that are to be sold in the store. Your amazing interpersonal skills will be handy when working with wholesalers to pick what you want to stock up on.


5. Visual Merchandiser
If you have an eye for great design, then try your hand at becoming a visual merchandiser. Arrange eye-catching displays to advertise your great products and design with the window-shoppers in mind.


6. Advertising & Marketing Manager
This job is essential for bringing traffic into the stores. You’ll assist with advertising strategies to drive potential customers to the store’s physical location and website.


7. Cleaning & Maintenance
A clean, well-maintained store is a must to keep customers coming back. Seek out a position in cleaning to help the store deliver an optimal customer experience.


8. Security Guard
There may be times when customers get a little too difficult — that’s where the security guard comes in! This position is essential for any store, and if you’re strong and willing to stand your ground, a security guard job may be right for you.


9. Inventory Manager
If you’re highly detail-oriented, taking up a position as inventory manager may be your calling! Whip out those organizational skills and keep track of the items sold and unsold at your store.


10. Stocker
Another position perfect for a detail-oriented person, a stocker must unpack, label, and shelf items from the inventory. You might also help customers place orders and requests for items that are out of stock.


11. Retail Warehouse Worker
Similar to a stocker position, a retail warehouse worker is responsible for packing and shipping stock that is to be sold in stores. You might need to do some heavy lifting and quick checks on merchandise for defects that may have been previously overlooked.


12. Social Media Manager
This position is a millennial’s dream come true! Show off your marketing skills through effective branding and advertising and help spread the word about the store through the latest social media sites.


13. Customer Service Representative
Ever had a bad experience with customer service, but didn’t know how to fix it? Become a customer service representative yourself and make other customers happy! This job will help you develop a talent for dealing with even the most difficult customers.


14. Human Resources
Make sure no one is slacking on the job and everyone is getting paid the benefits and salary or wage they deserve.


15. Loss Prevention Manager
Loss prevention deals with theft and stolen items. It’s a position best for those with a keen eye and an analytic mind, and involves keeping track of items that aren’t selling well to make sure that the store cuts its losses and stays on track.


16. Team Leaders & Floor Managers
Even within a store, it may be difficult to stay in touch with every employee. That’s where a team leader or floor manager comes in! You’ll be the middle man who communicates with other team leaders and keeps everyone else in the loop.


17. Logistics
This is an “everything” type of job for those with multiple skill sets. Some responsibilities include making sure the store is meeting all regulations and requirements, keeping track of order cycles and stock shipments, and guiding the store to meet target sales.


   1. Save the Student
We might be a little biased. But here at Save the Student, we've got one of the best resources for finding part-time student jobs. Our job search engine scours many of the sites listed below (and more!) for roles every hour.
You can easily filter by keyword and location. There are thousands of student-friendly job opportunities for you to apply for.


   2. StudentJob
As the name suggests, StudentJob specializes in student jobs of all shapes and varieties. There are plenty of part-time and summer jobs for you to take a look at. But, it also lists graduate jobs, placements and internships.
It covers all the big cities in the UK, and has lots of international opportunities, too.
If you're fluent in another language, you can even filter by language so you're able to make some money out of your skill.


   3. Indeed Flex
Although not specifically for student jobs, Indeed Flex (formally Syft) is an app that helps jobseekers find flexible, temp work with reputable employers.
There are no minimum shifts. On top of that, the type of work on offer is varied, making this app perfect if you're after work without committing to a long-term contract.
The only thing to watch out for is travel costs. It may not be worth travelling a long distance for a shift if the pay isn't substantial. Make sure to price this up before signing up to do anything.


   4. e4s
As one of the biggest student job sites in the UK, employment 4 students (or 'e4s', for short) is filled with opportunities.
And it doesn't just list part-time vacancies either. e4s also has sections for gap year jobs, internships, graduate roles and opportunities for school leavers.


   5. Graduate Recruitment Bureau
The Graduate Recruitment Bureau (GRB) is the leading recruitment agency for graduate jobs in the UK. It can match you up with roles in companies ranging from big corporations to small startups.
It's also great if you're looking for an internship or placement too, so you don't need to wait until your final year to sign up.


   6. Student Employment Services
Student Employment Services (SES) specialises in internships and placements. If you want to get some real-world experience while studying, this is a good place to start.
SES also has a whole load of graduate opportunities. It could be a useful way of getting your first step on the career ladder.


   7. Flair Events People
Flair is a nationwide company. It helps people find jobs in sports, festivals, hospitality and promo work. Roles include brand ambassadors, bar staff, street marketing, front of house and wristbanding.
For many roles, no previous experience is necessary. It's all about having the right kind of attitude and good communication skills. Flair is the perfect site if you're looking for casual summer work where you'll be paid weekly. It may even help you get to a festival without paying.


   8. Caterer.com
Caterer.com is the leading site for hospitality and catering jobs. If you want to work in a restaurant or bar, it's a good place to start.
Jobs are divided up into hotels, restaurants, food services and pubs and bars. You can tailor your job search to exactly what you want – whether it be waiting tables or helping out in the kitchen.


   9. AmeriCamp
AmeriCamp logoIf you want to sign up for an American summer camp, AmeriCamp is a good option.
Unlike most other summer camp agencies, AmeriCamp doesn't offer any packages with flights. Although this means a little extra work for you, it does mean you can use our tips on how to get cheap flights.


   10. RetailChoice
If you're specifically looking for jobs in the retail sector, then RetailChoice is your first port of call. You can filter your searches by job, location or company.
There's a good mix of full-time, part-time and temporary roles advertised. RetailChoice is a good option whether you're looking for work at uni or after graduation.
Entertainment
15 of Preston's best kept secrets
Our campus tours are pretty comprehensive, but they won’t tell you about Preston’s best kept secrets – compiled by our current students, here’s the places you must check out.


1. Tuscany on Plungington Road 
A quiet café that often gets missed because it’s a little out of the way, but is worth the extra walk. The display case is packed with Italian pastries and the gelato is to die for. They also make the perfect cappuccino, which is a must for exam season - Luke


2. Itsy’s Thai Street Food 
My favourite place outside campus. Though there are many assortments of different East Asian cuisine, nothing compares to the love and attention (and spice!) that Itsy gives to its Thai cuisine - Bethan


3. Laser quest 
The best place to chill out with friends on a day off. Located on Aqueduct Street, the building contains a multilevel laser course and several escape rooms that are sure to get your pulse racing - Sally Marie


4. The Mystery Tea House on Cannon Street
I love coming here to get some work done and have a cup of fruity tea or just hang out with my friends after fencing. They also have the best chips and really good traditional Polish food - Luke


5. Cafuné for the best Brazillian coffee 
A cosy South American café in the heart of the city centre with plenty of creative drinks and snacks. The perfect place to study alongside a warm cappuccino - Achint 


6. Brockholes Nature Reserve
A floating village in a 250 acre nature reserve with the best ice cream! It’s a bit of a journey on public transport, but it’s so worth it - Luci


7. The Larder Café
A writer’s retreat tucked away in the city centre. They host exhibitions, book launches, a variety of cooking initiatives, and creative writing groups, as well as just being a great place to study - Sally Marie


8. Moor Park
The best place for a walk - it’s a quieter space to bring yourself peace and my favourite area is the little waterfall that runs down by the grotto. I always go and sit there if I want to spend some time with myself - Harley


9. Have a Broughton banger at Brew + Bake
The best breakfast sandwich you’ll ever try! Plus there’s plenty of space to study in the café and they also have lots of fun events throughout the year - Luci


10. Preston Marina
This place has everything. Wonderful walks around the marina and the River Ribble. It has shops, café, a cinema and it is nice seeing the birds and boats on the water - Anthony 


11. RK Dining for snacks
I love treating myself to some Punjabi samosas or Indian snacks to keep me going throughout the day - Suntosh


12. Oasis Spirituality Centre
Firstly, you do not have to be religious to use the space and I find it has a nice feel, is quiet and has a library space with desks and chairs so I often study here - Anthony


13. Coco's Soul Food
A brilliant little eatery serving large portions of brilliant Caribbean/Mexican food at reasonable prices - Paul 


14. Student Centre
I spend most of the time there as it is an open social space where you can speak to your friends whilst also doing your work - Jamal 


15. Harrington for breakfast
I grab hash browns, beans and toast every morning from the Harrington canteen before heading to the third floor where I chill, eat and work on my assignments - there’s plenty of charging points too! - Suntosh


From Preston's parks and cafes to great nights out and drinks with friends, discover Preston student Megan's top places to visit in Preston
1. Avenham and Miller Park
Perfect if you need to get away from revision and fancy a walk, run or a chill with friends in the (occasionally) sunny parks. Both Avenham and Miller park are connected and an easy 12 minute walk from campus. The parks are beautiful, with many different pathways, leading on to Preston Docks and the Guild Wheel, great for walking, cycling or skating. Avenham park is home to a riverside café and Holy Grounds, a Preston hot-spot for great coffee and homemade doughnuts. 


2. Level
Level is a great place to catch up with friends, course mates and flatmates. Determine who is the best at crazy golf, bowling or attempt an assault course. Set across multiple levels, Level is an leisure and entertainment venue with activities for everyone, visit Level for:


Bowling
Darts
Karaoke
Crazy golf
Laser tag 
Assault course


3. Townhouse
Visit Townhouse for perfect coffee, beautiful eggs benedict and great staff. I do not think I need to say anything more – it is my favourite place to have brunch, or get some work done. Plus it is located less than 5 minutes' walk from campus, perfect for a pre-lecture pick me up. 


4. Coco’s
A staple amongst Preston students, Coco's is home to amazing food, with friendly staff and a great vibe. I recommend the Jerk Chicken Wrap and chips. Top tip: order the special sauce to go on chips. 


5. Cocktail bars in Preston
If you're a big fan of cocktails, some of my favourite places to drink in Preston are Turtle Bay, Baker Street, Wings and Beer or Hartley’s Wine Bar. Cute places, with some cool interiors and a great selection of cocktails.


6. Warehouse
Warehouse is my favourite club in Preston. Three floors of amazing music, from cheesy pop to every song your emo phase desired. It’s also the only place I know that serves Vodka Vimto that I recommend everyone should try!


Nightlife
Student life
The city comes alive at night. Preston has something for everyone, no matter what night of the week it is. Check out some of the best clubs and bars in Preston.


Bars in Preston
There's a variety of bars in Preston, giving big city vibes at affordable prices. All Hopes No Promises is a quirky little cocktail bar with amazing drinks and decor. If you fancy something more laid back, check out Lonely People where they have turned cocktail-making into an art. Revolution also have a bar in Preston where you can get a student discount. If you fancy something different, then Level Preston have activities like bowling, darts, crazy golf and laser tag. Roper Hall also has axe-throwing, shuffleboards and darts available.


Clubs in Preston
Fancy a night out? There are lots of clubs in Preston where you can dance into the early hours. Baker Street is a bar and club, where you can enjoy 2-4-1 cocktails and have a twirl on the dance floor. Baluga has a cosmopolitan feel, with fabulous cocktails and boozy brunches. The Warehouse has three floors which play different types music including dance, R'n'B and indie. And of course, we can't talk about clubs in Preston without mentioning Pop World - perfect for cheap drinks and cheesy tunes.


Live music in Preston
Preston is home to some great live music venues. The Ferret has been making a mark on the music scene since 2006. They regularly host rock, indie and open mic nights, with beers and burgers on demand. Blitz have a little bit of everything including big names like James Bay and Chase & Status, so keep your eye on their events. Vinyl Tap are another great live music destination in Preston. They're a small, intimate venue and when there's not a live band on, they play vinyl records. Perfect for music lovers.


Alcohol-free activities
Entertainment and nightlife
More and more students are choosing to go sober. There are plenty of alcohol-free activities in Preston, so you can still have fun and go out with your friends.


Things to do
There are lots of fun activities in Preston that don't involve drinking. Check out some of our favourite alcohol-free activities.


Cinema - Enjoy a movie night for less. Preston has an Odeon and Vue cinema, which both offer student discounts.
Bowling - Go bowling at Red Rose Bowl, just a short walk from campus.
Escape room - Test your problem-solving skills at an escape room. Escape Reality has lots of cool themed rooms and challenging clues.
Go-karting - Hit the tracks at Team Sport's Go Karting course.
Snooker and pool - Play a game of pool at Stephen Hendry's Snooker & Pool Club.
LeVel - LeVel has everything in one place including bowling, darts, mini golf and laser tag.


Late night dessert bars
If you want somewhere to socialise after-hours then why not check out some of Preston's late night dessert bars. Kaspa's serve American-style desserts including shakes, sundaes and waffles. Heavenly Desserts have a great spread of delicious cakes, crepes, cookie dough and more. Indulge at Haute Dolci with a divine menu of chocolate fondue, French toast and cakes.


Shopping and culture
Student life
Whether you're a fashion enthusiast or a fan of unique finds, there are plenty of shops in Preston to meet your needs. And don't forget your student card - you may be able to get a student discount.


High street favourites
Preston has all your favourite high street stores to update your wardrobe. The shops in Preston are close together and can be found along Fishergate. On the street, you can find JD Sports, Office, Next and M&S. In St George's shopping centre there's a H&M, New Look, River Island and more. Fishergate Shopping Centre has a large Primark and T K Maxx. Most of these shops have a student discount, so don't forget your student ID.


Vintage stores and thrifting
There's a few vintage shops in Preston, so you can shop sustainably and find unique pieces for your wardrobe. Retrogue is a vintage store just off Fishergate. They stock lots of cool men and women's clothes, perfect for your university wardrobe. The Vintage Boutique is a small store stocking a selection of vintage clothing, plus lots of quirky homeware and gifts too. If you love statement jewellery, check out Karen's Collectibles in the Market Hall. They have an eclectic mix of rings, watches and necklaces.


Beauty and wellness
There are lots of beauty and wellness shops in Preston, so you can stay on top of your self-care routine. There's a large Boots, which sells cosmetics, toiletries and hygiene products. It also has a pharmacy if you're feeling under the weather. You can also find Lush in the Fishergate shopping centre for handmade bath bombs, facemasks and more. There's a Holland and Barrett for all your supplement and superfood needs.


Green spaces and parks
Take some time away from your studies at one of Preston's many parks. Avenham Park is popular with students. The peaceful environment is perfect for summer picnics or evening strolls. Stop by the Japanese gardens, or follow the River Ribble to The Continental pub for food and live music. Moor Park is also nearby, with lots of green space and open air to enjoy. Or head to Winckley Square in the city centre, which is a lovely Georgian garden where you can enjoy the sunshine. 


Brockholes Nature Reserve
We're lucky to live so close to Brockholes Nature Reserve, which is home to various species of wildlife. There are over 250 acres to explore, including ancient woodland, rivers and lakes.  Just don't forget your wellies, because it can get muddy. Nestle down in one of the bird watching look-outs, where you can try a range of binoculars and telescopes. When you're feeling hungry, call into the floating visitor centre for a bite to eat.


Cycling in Preston
Take your wheels for a spin on Preston's 21 miles of Guild Wheel paths through parks and woodlands. It's just 10 minutes from campus. For a more challenging trail, head to the Forest of Bowland to enjoy miles of wide open spaces and breathtaking views. Don't own a bike? Hire one from our bike hub or one of Preston's Bike and Go stations.


Discover new knowledge about Preston. 
From Preston's past to present, delve into the city's long established history and find out what it's like to live and study here today. Plus, uncover fascinating facts about the city and famous Prestonians through the years, as well an insight into the Preston Guild and how the event came about. 


Fun filled family activities in the heart of Lancashire.
Venture into the city centre and you'll find a wealth of indoor fun to keep the whole family entertained. The city also boasts a vibrant arts and cultural scene with a wide mix of museums and exhibition spaces to explore.


If it's outdoor activities you're after, Preston offers a number of fantastic parks, gardens and city trails, as well as the Guild Wheel - a diverse 21-mile route providing the perfect opportunity for a challenging and enjoyable day of cycling. Alternatively, enjoy the city's surrounding scenery from the comfort of your carriage with a ride on a heritage steam train at Ribble Steam Railway, located on Preston Docks - the city's historical waterfront.


Delve into the city's fascinating past on one of our heritage tours and trails.
Explore Preston's past and present with one of our heritage trails. Wind back the clock and discover the incredible lives of famous Prestonians, see key landmarks that have helped shape Preston and find out about the stories behind the city's statues and sculptures. For those who prefer guided tours, the Friends of Winckley Square regularly arrange walks offering insights into the history, stories and people of Winckley Square.


Or, if you're looking to head out on more rural trails, then take a look at our walks in and around Preston section.
Clubs and Societies
Find where you belong...
From creative writing and poetry to nature and the great outdoors, Preston offers a mix of clubs and societies to suit a variety of interests.


If you would like your club or society featured in the directory please email visit@preston.gov.uk.


Offering a fine mix of accommodation and places to stay in the heart of Lancashire.
Sitting at the geographical centre of the UK with excellent transport connections, Preston is a popular location for both leisure and business visits. 


For those after a city centre location, Preston delivers on all levels. For that touch of class and effortless style, you can find a selection of luxurious boutique hotels nestled along Winckley Square - one of the finest examples of a Georgian Square in the North West. Surrounded by a rich oasis of greenery, it makes the perfect urban retreat. Or, if you're on a budget and just after a base for travelling, then Preston has a it covered with a wide choice of simple comfortable stays. And, for those after space and flexibility, the city offers a host of fresh modern self catering apartments scattered across convenient central locations.


If an idyllic countryside getaway is more your style, Preston has some beautiful rural areas on it's doorstep offering a number of stays in super scenic surrounds. Whether you're looking to indulge in a pampering break, unwind with the family or just keen to get closer to nature, Preston presents plenty of options. From luxurious spa packages leaving you refreshed and recharged and holiday villages in gorgeous green settings to a mix of great camping and glamping options, you can be certain to find the right stay for you.


Explore Preston with ease, thanks to a variety of accessible options to help keep activities and days out inclusive. With regards to catering for individual needs and requirements, Preston's accessible choices mean everyone can enjoy the key sights and attractions the city has to offer - making this popular Lancashire city a great destination for all!


Accessible indoor activities
Preston's fantastic range of activities will surprise you with their accessible options, whether you're looking for something energetic or something more low key.


Cinema
Preston is home to three cinemas, all offering disabled access and facilities. There's the ultra-modern Vue Cinema, the traditional Odeon Cinema, ensuring all tastes are catered for.


Vue Cinema
Vue Cinema is located on Capitol Centre Retail Park, combining retail with entertainment on the outskirts of Preston city centre. Their facilities include:


Accessible parking for blue badge holders
Wheelchair access throughout the venue
Accessible toilet
Hearing loops at all counters
Audio description (select screens)
Infrared headsets
Wheelchair spaces and adjoining seats
Regular subtitled screenings
Autism-friendly screenings


Odeon Cinema
Odeon Cinema sits on the edge of Preston Docks. The cinema is home to an accessible Costa as well as being a top location for wonderful views around the Dock. Their facilities include:


Disabled parking
Full disabled access
Accessible toilets
Hearing induction loops at all tills and service points
Wheelchair spaces and companion seat
Infrared enabling audio description (select films)
Extra amplification headsets
CEA Cards accepted


Swimming
Preston offers two top choices of places to swim or relax in the pool. Both leisure centres are adapted for wheelchair users and include accessible parking, ramp access, accessible changing, a disabled toilet, a lift, a poolside hoist and poolside facilities. Choose from West View Better Health Leisure Centre, close to Preston city centre, or Fulwood Leisure Centre.


Curling
If you'd like to get stuck into a new hobby or try something fun then curling could be for you. The Flower Bowl Entertainment Centre is home to a wheelchair-friendly Olympic size curling rink. The centre is also home to a number of places to eat and drink so you can make a day of it.


Trampoline and inflatable
There's plenty fun to be had in special sessions at Preston's trampoline and inflatable parks, helping you enjoy the great facilities whilst escaping the noise and chaos.


Flip Out Trampoline Park offer Autism and disability sessions. Also offering ASD and disability friendly sessions is Wacky World, a unique inflatable assault course and arena. The arena is a fun experience for both children and adults, with their amazing games and activities taking place in a safe environment. The sessions also include a quiet room if needed and are run by fully trained staff. 


Preston Space Centre
The Space Centre is located near Preston Docks and is specially designed for adults and children with special needs. The centre offers a flexible environment for families, carers, therapists and teachers, boasting three multi-sensory rooms.


As well as top facilities within the multi-sensory rooms, The Space Centre also has beautiful historical gardens to walk around, currently undergoing work to make them even more accessible.


Flower Bowl Entertainment Centre
Located between Preston and Garstang, Flower Bowl Entertainment Centre aims to be as open and accessible to its visitors as possible. The front rows in all cinema screens are wheelchair friendly and they also have autism friendly and subtitled screenings. For their bowling and crazy golf activities, accessible equipment is available such as bowling ramps and wheelchair putters. The Flower Bowl Entertainment Centre is also home to a wheelchair-friendly Olympic size curling rink.


For more details on their provisions for disabled users visit The Flower Bowl - accessibility.


Accessible adventures outdoors
Preston boasts a spectacular selection of parks, heritage and scenery to take in, many of which have accessible facilities.


Parks and gardens
Avenham and Miller Parks
Avenham and Miller Parks are beautiful, central, Victorian parks with an abundance of sights to enjoy. The parks' paths are well-maintained and disabled toilets are available. Some paths within the parks involve steep inclines, however, it is possible to enjoy the parks along the level paths by using the West Cliff or South Meadow lane entrance.


Winckley Square Gardens
Winckley Square Gardens provide a peaceful location in the heart of Preston city centre. The garden's have many different paths, some involving steep inclines. Three out of five of the garden's entrances are level and accessible, allowing parts of the gardens and its views to be enjoyed with ease.


Moor Park
Moor Park is Preston's oldest and largest park, involving many level and well-maintained paths to explore. Disabled toilets are also available in the Moor Park bowling pavilion.


Haslam Park
Haslam Park is a peaceful Edwardian park outside of the city centre. The park's entrances are suitable for disabled access and disabled toilets are available in the Haslam bowls pavilion during bowling season. There are level paths in the park, including a lime tree avenue, however, some areas of the park involve some inclines.


Ashton Park
Ashton Park is a large greenspace with a lot to explore. The park involves mainly flat surfaces and level paths. There is also on-site parking and disabled toilets are available in the bowls pavilion during bowling season.


Grange Park
Grange Park is a wonderful park for exploring some history, with the site of an old Victorian manor house within its picturesque grounds. The paths within Grange Park are level and well-maintained.


Ribbleton Park
Ribbleton Park is a place to visit for its greenspace and community gardens. The park has disabled toilets on-site and has mainly level paths.


Walks and tours
There are a number of self-guided city walks exploring the history and heritage of Preston. These walks take place within the city centre and come in various lengths and difficulties.


For more details on the walks available see Tours and Trails.


Brockholes Nature Reserve
Brockholes makes a peaceful and enjoyable visit for lovers of nature and wildlife. The reserve is also home to many regular events and activities as well as a cafe and floating visitors village. The floating visitors village includes accessible toilets and the site has disabled parking. Assistance dogs are welcome and most footpaths are level and surfaced.


For more details and an access guide visit Brockholes - Accessibility.


Bowland Wild Boar Park
Bowland Wild Boar Park makes a great choice for animal and outdoor lovers. Some of the park walks there may be over uneven ground and steep hills. To help visitors move around the path, there two mobility vehicles which are bookable if required. These allow access to the lower areas of the park but are unsuitable for woodland areas. They also offer disabled parking and ramps for access to the Office, Café, Ice Cream Parlour, Disabled Toilet and Tractor and Trailer Ride. Guide Dogs are also welcome in all areas of the park.


For more details, including how to book the mobility vehicles, visit Wild Boar Park - disabled access.


Accessible arts, culture and heritage
Explore Preston's arts and culture scene as well as its fantastic historical buildings.


Museums and galleries
The Lancashire Infantry Museum
For those into their military history, Lancashire Infantry Museum is the place to go. Located at Fulwood Barracks, the museum has wheelchair access, an accessible toilet, disabled parking and friendly staff willing to help with viewing the displays.


British Commercial Vehicle Museum
For motor enthusiasts, why not visit the British Commercial Vehicle Museum. The museum has easy access to all parts of the museum (including special toilet facilities) for wheelchairs and mobility scooters. Assistance dogs are also allowed entry into the museum (including The Heritage Café).


Preston Playhouse
Fancy a trip to the theatre? Look no further than Preston Playhouse. They offer spaces for wheelchair users in the auditorium and facilities for disabled visitors. They also have a hearing loop for visitors who are hard of hearing. Please contact the Box Office prior to a show if you need assistance.


History and heritage sites
Ribble Steam Railway and Museum
If you're looking for a memorable day out, then Ribble Steam Railway Museum makes a great option. The unique heritage attraction has full disabled facilities with easy access to all areas. Ramped access is available to their specially adapted coach for wheelchair users and carers. Disabled visitors and their carers are charged at Concessionary Rates. There is also ample free car parking adjacent to the entrance, including disabled parking spaces right outside the doors.


Samlesbury Hall
If you're looking to absorb some history then look no further than Samlesbury Hall. The hall, built in 1325, is the perfect place to spend the day, with a restaurant, cafe, animals and a bee centre all on-site. The grounds are wheelchair accessible, with some galleries accessible by lift. The hall itself is accessible, however, due to the nature of the building, the upstairs rooms are not.


Preston Cenotaph
For even more history, The Preston Cenotaph sits on the Flag Market in the city centre. This structure is a Grade I listed war memorial and is certainly a sight to check off your list. With the location of the Cenotaph, you'll find it easily accessible to view.


Preston Docks
Preston Docks are steeped in history, once being the largest inland dock in Europe. There are great views of the city and the water, with level and accessible paths circling the dock. There are also some fantastic places to eat or grab a drink nearby.


Deepdale Stadium
For football lovers, Deepdale Stadium is a must see. The stadium can be viewed easily from the outside, with the Sir Tom Finney fountain also on the grounds. If you fancy catching a match, the stadium also provides full disabled access so you can enjoy the full experience.


Accessible annual events
Preston city centre hosts a number of annual events that are accessible.


The annual Pride event is held on the flag market, creating an open space filled with entertainment. The Caribbean Carnival, held in the Summer, is held on Moor Park, also creating an accessible open space where food, drink and entertainment can be enjoyed.


Preston also hosts Lancashire Encounter, an annual arts and culture festival taking place over a full weekend in September. The festival sees a huge number of events and installations around the city centre, with many of these accessible and changing places toilets at Preston Bus Station. For more details on the festival visit Encounter Festival.


Changing Places
Changing Places toilet in Preston city centre.
Preston city centre is home to a Changing Places toilet facility, making it easier to visit city centre attractions.


For details of where you can find Changing Places toilets around Preston visit Changing Places - Find a toilet.


Like or follow us on social media to get the latest updates from the University
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
TikTok
Instagram
LinkedIn
The Student Room
Alumni (Twitter)
Business (Twitter)
Research (Twitter)


Preston Events 
Looking for something to do in Preston? Whether you're a local, new in town or just cruising through we've got loads of great tips and events. You can explore by location, what's popular, our top picks, free stuff... you got this. Ready?


Whats on in Preston
Preston events, clubs, gigs and what's on
If you find yourself in the glorious land of Lancashire, then you have to get yourself down and experience some of what’s on in Preston. From Freddie Flintoff to North End, Wade Barret to Sir Tom Finney, Preston is a city that prides itself on its sporting prowess
Yet, the city also has another prowess, it knows how to have a bloody good time. There are so many Preston events for you to sink your teeth into; live music plugs in at The Ferret and The Continental, watch curtain call at The Playhouse Theatre or even catch one of the classic English football teams in North End at Deepdale.
Whatever you’re after, Preston has got it. So, scroll through our listings and book tickets for events in Preston now!


Commute
Preston sits at the heart of the UK with excellent transport connections to and around the city.
Whether you're looking for information on travelling to Preston, moving around the city once you're there, group travel ideas or a list of car park options, we can help you with all your travel and parking related queries.


City Centre parking
Travelling to Preston
Travelling around Preston
Group travel - Preston


The Guild Wheel is a public footpath and cycle route, created in 2012 in celebration of the Preston Guild and officially opened in August of that year. 21 miles (34 km) in length, it encircles Preston, linking the city to the countryside and surrounding villages. Walking and cycling on the pathway along the banks of the Lancaster Canal is popular among the city's residents and visitors.


The nearest airports from Preston with scheduled service are Liverpool John Lennon Airport and Manchester Airport, about 40 miles (64 km) south-west and south-east of the city respectively. Manchester Airport is linked by a direct rail service operated by TransPennine Express. Blackpool Airport, approximately 16 miles (26 km) to the west of Preston, provides facilities for private aviation and charter flights. Although not a public airport, Warton Aerodrome is an active airfield west of the city and is the airfield for the BAE Warton factory. BAE Samlesbury to the east of the town was an active aerodrome, with a gliding club, but today serves as a facility for BAE Systems and no longer supports flying activities.


The station has nine (9) platforms, eight (8) of which are in public use, and access is provided for the mobility-impaired. Facilities include:
Staffed ticket office (limited hours) and self-service ticket machines
Cafes and news agency
Lost property office
Toilets
Waiting lounges
Taxi rank
Bus stop (near by)
Many services between Preston and the surrounding area were operated by Ribble Motor Services which became part of the Stagecoach Group, using the name Stagecoach in Lancashire. Several of its routes were branded "Preston Citi"; they operated to Fulwood, Ribbleton, Penwortham, Longton, Walton-le-dale, Walmer Bridge, New Longton, Bamber Bridge, Longridge, Chorley and Leyland. Preston Bus, formerly the city's municipal bus company, also served the district and operated a route between Preston and Penwortham.


Preston was one of the first cities in the UK to have displays fitted to every bus stop which aim to provide an accurate time and destination of the next bus arriving using GPS tracking. The service, initially restricted to services within the borough, was expanded to cover Fishwick's 111 Preston to Leyland route but was discontinued in 2011, and reinstated on some routes in 2013.


City Centre parking in Preston
Visiting Preston city centre is made easy by its ample choice of parking for cars, motorcycles, and coaches. From pay as you go and multi-storey to dedicated disabled car parks and park and rides, the city centre has you covered.


City centre car parks
The city centre is home to a large number of car parks, the following information being the larger and more prominent ones available. Prices can be found through the links for each individual car park.


Multi-storey car parks
Avenham Car Park - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display, with electrical car charge points
Preston Bus Station Car Park - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display
St George's Shopping Centre - Pay and display, free electrical car charge points
Preston Train Station - Long stay parking and advance booking available


Surface car parks
Hill Street Car Park - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display
Trinity Square Car Park - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display
Fishergate Shopping Centre - Pay on departure
Penny Street Car Park - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display
St Wilfrid Street - Pay and display, and virtual pay and display
Avenham Street Car Park - Pay on departure, 200 spaces
Walker Street Car Park - Pay and display, 360 spaces
East Cliff Car Park - Pay and display, 78 spaces


Disabled parking
Chapel Yard Disabled Car Park - Solely for the use of blue badge holders
Avenham Car Park - Dedicated disabled parking spaces
Avenham Street Car Park - Dedicated disabled parking spaces
Hill Street Car Park - Dedicated disabled parking spaces
Penny Street Car Park - Four dedicated disabled parking spaces
Preston Bus Station Car Park - Dedicated disabled parking spaces on levels one and two 
St George's Shopping Centre - Dedicated disabled parking spaces on level one
Fishergate  Shopping Centre - Dedicated disabled parking spaces


Motorcycle parking
Avenham Car Park - Designated motorcycle parking one ground level
Hill Street Car Park - Designated motorcycle parking area
Preston Bus station car park - Designated motorcycle parking on levels one and two


Coach parking
Coach parking is available at Preston Bus Station Car Park on Tithebarn Street.


For details, including how to book, visit Lancashire County Council - coach parking.


Please note: Preston Bus Station is currently unable to accept coach parking unless it is pre-booked.


Park and rides
If you like avoiding the hassle of city centre parking then Preston has two park and rides to choose from. With regular buses travelling from the sites to the city centre, both park and rides take you effortlessly into the heart of Preston.


Portway and Harrington Road
Portway and Harrington Road Park and Ride is located near Preston Docks, and is even close enough for a short stroll into the city centre instead of the bus.


For details on this park and ride visit Lancashire County Council - Portway park and ride.


Capitol Centre
The Capitol Centre Park and Ride is a great way of combining all the fun of the Capitol Centre Retail Park with the city centre. The park and ride has regular buses, or a scenic path along the River Ribble into the city centre nearby.


For details on the Capitol Centre park and ride visit Lancashire County Council - Park and Ride.


Map address for city centre car parks
Avenham car park, 35 Avenham Street, Preston PR1 3BN.
Preston Bus Station car park, Tithebarn Street, Preston, PR1 1YT.
St George's Shopping Centre, 28 Friargate, Preston, PR1 2TU.
Preston Train Station car park, Fishergate, Preston, PR1 8AP.
Hill Street car park, Hill Street, Preston, PR1 2BB.
Trinity Square car park, Market Street West, Preston, PR1 2EU.
Fishergate Shopping Centre, Fishergate, Preston, PR1 8HJ.
Penny Street car park, Penny Street, Preston, PR1 1YP.
St Wilfrid Street car park, St Wilfrid Street, Preston, PR1 2US.
Avenham Street car park, Avenham Street, Preston, PR1 3BN.
Walker Street car park, 3050 North Street, Preston, PR1 2RQ.
East Cliff Car Park, Preston, PR1 3JH.
Chapel Yard disabled car park, between Fleet Street and Friargate, Preston, PR1 2UT.
Park and Ride Portway, Preston, PR1 8PQ.
Capitol Centre, Walton-le-Dale, Preston, PR5 4AW


Travelling to Preston
Preston boasts excellent connectivity and is situated in the heart of Lancashire's transport network, making travelling to the city a straightforward affair, wherever you're coming from. This handy guide can help you plan your journey when travelling to Preston by road, rail, or bus. 


By road
Preston is easy to travel to, thanks to motorways connecting the city with the north, south, east and west.


You can reach Preston from the following motorways:


M6 - The M6 connects the North with the South and provides easy access into Preston and its city centre from major towns and cities. Some of these places include London, Liverpool, Lancaster, and the Lake District.
M55 - If travelling from the West, the M55 connects Blackpool to Preston.
M65 - The M65 links the East with Preston, ideal for those travelling from many towns and cities in the East, including Blackburn, Burnley, and Colne.
M61 - The M61 makes Preston easily accessible via Manchester and other Northern locations, including Manchester airport.


By rail
Getting to Preston by rail makes a convenient option, with Preston Train Station being a principal station on the West Coast Main Line from London to Glasgow.


Routes to Preston run from London Euston, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow and Edinburgh, with a direct link travelling to Manchester Airport.


With routes from London taking less than 2.5 hours with Avanti West Coast, you can enjoy an easy journey to Preston from the south in a relaxed fashion with Wi-Fi, power sockets and Quiet Zones.


For train times and prices visit National Rail or Trainline.


By bus
Preston's architecturally unique Bus Station is the largest bus station in the UK and provides a central location for local and national bus and coach companies. 


There are frequent coach journeys to, or calling at, Preston. These include coaches from National Express and Megabus.


Local bus services link to Preston from:


Chorley
Morecambe
Southport
Leyland
Blackpool
Lancaster
Blackburn
Burnley
Wigan
Bolton
Manchester
Liverpool
For a list of timetables see Lancashire County Council - Preston bus station times and interchanges.


By air
Preston is well positioned within an hour's drive of the following major airports:


Manchester International Airport (approximately 50 minutes by car and linked by rail)
Liverpool John Lennon Airport (approximately 50 minutes by car)


City centre parking
Parking in Preston City Centre is straightforward, thanks to a number of options. For details on car parks see City Centre Parking.


Travelling around Preston
Preston offers a range of local transport options to make travelling in and around the city as easy and accessible as possible for everyone. This handy guide has all the information you need for travelling around Preston, whether you plan on getting around by foot, bus, train, car, bike, or taxi. 


Cycling
Preston is a well-networked city, making it easy to get around on two wheels. The Guild Wheel - a 21 mile greenway encircling the city - is a handy connection for the main areas in and around Preston, whilst also making an enjoyable leisurely cycle for those wanting to admire the city's rural areas.  


Many other cycle-friendly paths connect rural and suburban areas to the city centre, creating an easy way to get out and about. Areas to leave your bike securely include Preston Train Station and the Leisure Lakes Bike Hub, also ideally located outside the train station.


See Cycling for more information.  


Bike rental
Leisure Lakes Bike Hub is conveniently located at Preston Train Station. Here you can hire bikes for getting around the city with ease and for enjoying one of the many leisurely cycle routes around the city.


For opening times and prices visit Leisure Lakes Bikes - Preston Hub.


Bus
Prestonbus is the main service for intercity travel. The bus service offers competitive prices and tickets covering the day, the week, or two weeks. You can even buy your ticket online, making it even easier and cheaper to travel around the city.


For bus times, prices, or to buy tickets online visit Prestonbus.


Stagecoach buses also operate from Preston Bus Station for bus journeys to outside the city centre and surrounding districts and towns. For more details visit Stagecoach.


Train
Not only does Preston Train Station effortlessly connect you to surrounding Lancashire towns, cities, and beyond, services also run to districts within Preston.


Services include regular direct trains to Bamber Bridge, Leyland, and Lostock Hall.


To check train times and prices visit National Rail or Trainline.


Taxi
For a list of hackney carriage cab prices and ranks across the city see Preston City Council - taxi fares and ranks. These cabs can also be hailed across the city. Just look for the orange light and you'll know they're taking passengers.


Alternatively, there are a number of quality private hire vehicles in operation across the city. For a list of private operators see Yell - taxis and private hire vehicles in Preston.


Car hire
If you'd prefer the flexibility of driving yourself, there are a number of car hire companies in Preston offering visitors a choice of hire vehicles for business, holidays, or day trips.


Popular car hire companies available include:


Enterprise
Hertz
Kayak
Thrifty


Preston by foot
If you're looking to explore the city by foot, then why not explore Preston's past and present with one of our heritage trails.


Not only is Preston's city centre compact and easy to navigate around, there are also quick routes leading to surrounding areas for easy exploring.
Nearby supermarkets
Here are the nearest supermarkets and international food shops in Preston.


Supermarkets
Aldi - Corporation Street, Preston, PR1 2UZ
Lidl - West Strand, Preston, PR1 8UY
Morrisons - Riversway, Preston, PR2 2YN
Tesco Superstore - Liverpool Road Penwortham, Preston, PR1 9XE
The Food Warehouse - Queen Street, Preston, PR1 4HZ
Iceland - Lowthian House, Ring Way, Preston, PR1 2ES
International stores
KW Foodstores - Kent Street, Deepdale, Preston, PR1 1PJ
KGN Foodstore – 7-11 Great Hanover Street, Preston, PR1 1PY
Barkat Foodstore Preston Ltd – 1-2 Canute Street, Preston, PR1 1PL
KR Samartos - 58 Plungington Road, Preston, PR1 7RA


Preston Local Services
Student Support
Cost of living support 
Mature Student Support
The Pre-school Centre for students with young children.
Careers and employment support
Mental health and wellbeing support


More support is available and further details can be found on Student support hub.


Best Entrepreneurial University of the Year:
We won Best Entrepreneurial University at the Educate North Awards 2023. This recognised our work with thousands of student start-ups and businesses in the North West.




Explore our subjects
Courses: 
Welcome to our course A-Z, check out our course listings to discover what we have to offer.
We have a fantastic range of courses from undergraduate and postgraduate degrees to continued professional development (CPD) and degree apprenticeships. Browse our course A-Z page listings to see what we offer at every course level. 


Whether you’re just starting your journey, or about to commence your research degree, we have something to suit everyone. Check out our wide range of subjects to see what best suits you. Many of our courses offer valuable experience in industry, the chance to study abroad, field trips and opportunities to contribute to research. You’ll learn from expert academics and take advantage of our specialist facilities.


We’ll support you throughout your time with us. Our dedicated teams are here to help with every aspect of student life, always ready to guide, advise and encourage you on your journey to success.  Our main campus is based in Preston in the heart of the North West, the city with a big personality. We have a diverse campus network with additional sites in Burnley, Westlakes and Cyprus, find out more about our campuses and partners.  


Free Return to Study entry programmes
If you've been out of education for many years, our free six-week short courses will help you make the transition to university study. Refresh your skills and gain the knowledge you need to progress onto one of our foundation entry programmes or even a full degree.


Undergraduate A-Z
At UCLan, we see your potential. That's why we offer a variety of UK undergraduate courses. Take a look at our undergraduate degrees & study a subject you love.
Accounting & Finance (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
N415
DELIVERY
In Person
Study abroad optionSandwich option
Our Accounting & Finance Foundation Entry is one the best pathways into the accounting profession.
Our course combines an academic programme with technical training. Develop your intellectual capacity, analytical skills and gain a strong knowledge and understanding of accounting. You’ll be able to work in audit, tax and accountancy businesses, as well as in financial functions within other organisations.
Read moreabout the Accounting & Finance (Foundation Entry) course
Why study with us
ACCA is the fastest growing, most supportive gateway to your career in accountancy, finance, business and management.
An ACCA Qualification is recognised in 181 countries – you’ll have the skills and experience to build a successful career anywhere in the world.
You’ll get the opportunity to attend practical Sage and SAP workshops.
What you'll do
As well as learning theory, you’ll get hands-on with practical Sage and SAP workshops in Years 1-3.
Take an optional 48-week paid placement within industry in Year 3, putting theory into practice in a professional business environment.
You’ll have the option to study at our Cyprus Campus on completion of Year 2.


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.


Year 0
Enterprise and the Entrepreneur
This module aims to develop your sense of entrepreneurial flair by introducing you to the basics of creative thinking for new business ideas.
Module code
BMC001
Managing Business Information
Understand the relationship between different types of information in the operations and management of successful businesses. You'll conduct primary research, to make sense of what the findings mean and be aware of the limitations. Learn to use appropriate data management and spreadsheet software, effectively and apply mathematical calculations and principles to interpreting simple quantitative information.
Module code
BMC002
Study Skills for Success
This module aims to equip you with the study skills necessary at entry level for academic studies. You'll complete an academic literature review by means of study, facilitated by the module leader and support tutor(s) in order to enhance knowledge in your chosen area of interest. Completion of this module will prepare you to make effective use of learning opportunities in other modules of study and in the workplace.
Module code
BMC005
Contemporary Business in Context
This module aims to raise your awareness of the impact of business in the U.K, investigate business in the news and develop an awareness of the global business context.
Module code
BMC006


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.
Year 1
Introduction to Economics
The module aims to introduce you to the main and well-established principles of economic analysis and to the “economic way of thinking”. If you're studying an accounting-related degree a familiarity with a range of common concepts in economics is required in line with Professional Body requirements. The primary concern is with mainstream micro- and macro-theory within an appropriate institutional context.
Module code
BM1002
Introduction to Financial Accounting
Develop knowledge and understanding of the underlying principles and concepts relating to financial accounting and technical proficiency. By the use of double-entry accounting techniques including the preparation of basic financial statements.
Module code
BM1100
Introduction to Management Accounting
Gain an understanding of the basic theory, concepts and practices of cost and management accounting. And achieve an understanding and competence to apply the principles and techniques of cost and management accounting to straightforward decision-making problems.
Module code
BM1200
Information Systems and the Business Environment
The overall aim of the Information Systems and the Business Environment module is to develop your understanding of the business challenges, devise and manage solutions. It aims to develop your critical thinking and analytical reasoning for problem-solving.
Module code
BM1300
Legal Obligations in Business
This module will introduce you to accounting and business basic legal rules, principles, and methods. As well as outlining the basic sources, methods of interpretation and institutions of the English Legal System. You'll be encouraged to recognise the application of these legal principles, with reference to hypothetical legal scenarios, particularly in the areas of contract and tort law.
Module code
BM1511
Introduction to Personal and Professional Practice
This module will develop a personal and professional practice to enable you to become more effective and confident in your programme of study. You'll also enhance your skills for future employment in the evolving fields of accounting and finance.
Module code
BM1600


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.
Year 2
Financial Accounting
In this module you'll develop an understanding of accounting in more complex situations, including group accounting scenarios. You will learn new skills and techniques as well as the application of accounting theory.
Module code
BM2100
Companies and the Law
The aims of this module are to explain the basic principles of company law, to encourage you to consider the practical problems which the legal rules are endeavouring to resolve. And to enable you to be in a position where you can critically evaluate the extent to which the rules achieve the desired effect.
Module code
BM2155
Management Accounting
In this module you'll develop a deeper understanding of different management accounting techniques. You'll be able to critically appraise a range of decision-making models. Analyse management accounting problems relating to short term and long-term decision-making. You'll learn how to create financial plans and analyse variances.
Module code
BM2200
Financial Management
In this module you'll appreciate the principles of financial management and decision making. You will discover the different sources of finance available to business. Learn to analyse and evaluate current corporate finance developments in a decision making context.
Module code
BM2400
Accounting Information Systems and Control Issues
Develop your knowledge of AIS and acquire a basic understanding of accounting databases. Learn to critically appraise the development and use of AIS within the context of the finance function. This module also aims to develop a detailed understanding of the necessary relationship between AIS and security and audit issues.
Module code
BM2500
Taxation Theory and Practice
This module aims to enable you to develop competence in the technical and computational issues relating to taxation. You'll also consider the social and economic factors and explore personal, professional, and commercial ethics relating to taxation.
Module code
BM2600
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.


Year 3
Advanced Financial Accounting
This module aims to develop your problem-solving skills of complex issues in financial accounting. You'll develop the ability to critically appraise accounting solutions to real world problems. You will gain an understanding of the advanced financial reporting environment. You'll also gain a thorough grasp of a broad range of specific accounting issues.
Module code
BM3100
Advanced Management Accounting
In this module you'll develop your problem-solving skills of complex issues in management accounting. You'll critically appraise management accounting solutions to real world problems. You will also discuss the relevance and importance of emerging issues in management accounting.
Module code
BM3200
Auditing Theory and Practice
You'll be equipped with the knowledge needed to explain the process of carrying out an audit engagement. You'll also learn how to analyse audit scenarios in the context of the professional regulatory framework.
Module code
BM3300
Corporate Finance
This module will equip you with skills expected of a finance manager. You'll develop skills and knowledge in investment, financing and dividend policy decisions. You will be able to identify and compare alternative sources of business finance, including working capital. You will also be able to explain and calculate the cost of capital and the factors which affect it, including alternative sources of finance. The module enables you to analyse investment decisions as well as principles of business and asset valuations.
Module code
BM3400
Business Strategy
You will learn to develop and implement business strategy. You'll engage with a range of approaches to strategy and will consider your choice or advice in different situations.
Module code
BM3500
Advanced Taxation Theory and Practice
The module will focus on advanced aspects of UK taxation. It will enable you to examine and apply the current UK tax rules and analyse how they interact in a range of scenarios. The module will cover the taxation of individuals and corporates. 
Module code
BM3600


Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100% Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.


Future careers
Accounting and Finance Foundation Entry can lead to a career in industry, commerce and the public sector as accountants or finance officers.


You can complete your ACCA professional qualification at the University on the MSc Accounting (ACCA).


Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level subjects
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSE: 5 at C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent


Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year


Additional costs
As part of your course there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees. Most of these will be optional, but some courses have essential additional costs. Find out more about additional costs.


Scholarships and bursaries
We have a wide range of bursaries, scholarships and funds available to help support you whilst studying with us.


Select your country to see eligibility information and how to apply by selecting more info on the cards below.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION


UK
Care Leaver Bursary
Our Care Leaver Bursary is for students who need extra support because they have been in care or are estranged from their parents.


Find out more about Care Leaver Bursary
Estranged student support
Estranged Student Support Bursary is for students who need extra support because they are estranged from their parents.


Find out morea bout Estranged student support
Dependants Bursary
Students with financially dependent children may be eligible for our Dependants Bursary as part of our financial support package. 


Find out moreabout Dependants Bursary
Foundation Year Bursary
Our Foundation Year Bursary Scheme is for students starting a 4 or 5 year Undergraduate Degree programme.


You’ll benefit from a variety of teaching and learning methods including: lectures, seminars, practical workshops, group activities, personal research and case studies. Personal study and independent research form a key part of the course. Some modules are part web-based with links to organisations such as professional bodies.


Assessment includes essays; reports; oral presentations; group assessments; investigating companies and tackling briefs from industry. In your final year you’ll have the opportunity to undertake an independent dissertation or company project. Exams account for no more than 50 per cent of the final mark (with exception of the accounting modules).


During your first year you’ll, on average, attend between 12 and 14 hours of formal study per week. In the second and final year attendance will vary depending on which options are chosen but typically between 10-12 hours per week. During the optional placement you’ll follow the normal work pattern of your chosen company.


We’ve strong links with industry to enrich your learning. These include:


RSM – a local accountancy firm that visits the University periodically to present and speak to students about careers in practice and the key skills required to succeed as Chartered Accountants.


Astute Wealth Management, a local Financial Services company.


Guest speaker events are organised in conjunction with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Marketing (CiM).


The companies we work with offer internships, placements, live projects and mentors to provide you with excellent practical experience.
BA (Hons) Accounting & Finance
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
N4N3
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entryStudy abroad optionSandwich optionStudy in Cyprus
Our Accounting and Finance degree will prepare you for a successful career in the accounting profession.
Our BA Accounting and Finance offers you the ideal preparation for a career as a Chartered Accountant. We’ve designed it so that it covers the same content as some of the chartered accountancy exams. This means that you can be exempt from professional body exams, enabling you to become a professional in a shorter amount of time.
What do you learn in an accounting and finance degree?
We’ll give you valuable insights into the nature of the accounting process and its varied applications in the world of business.


You’ll develop your intellectual capacity and intellectual skills. You'll also build a strong knowledge and understanding of accounting and finance. When you graduate you’ll be well equipped to get a job in audit, tax and accountancy businesses. As well as financial functions within other organisations.


Why study with us
This course covers the same content as some of the chartered accountancy exams. This means that you can be exempt from professional body exams, enabling you to become a professional in a shorter amount of time.
You'll have access to SAGE, a world-renowned software provider.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
Interested?
Apply for this course
Next steps
Download
What you'll do
Meet and learn from industry professionals in our networking sessions. Our 'Making It Count' network will introduce you to industry-leading companies and individuals. These networks will enhance your learning experience and further your career prospects.
Our network offers work placements, summer, internships, employer events, mentorship programmes, careers advice and more. In your third year you’ll get the chance to put theory into practice by taking on a 48-week paid industry placement in the UK or overseas.
You’ll also get the opportunity to attend practical Sage and Excel workshops. These workshops will help aid your future employability as they are valued by both local and national employers.


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.
Year 1


Introduction to Economics
The module aims to introduce you to the main and well-established principles of economic analysis and to the “economic way of thinking”. If you're studying an accounting-related degree a familiarity with a range of common concepts in economics is required in line with Professional Body requirements. The primary concern is with mainstream micro- and macro-theory within an appropriate institutional context.


Module code
BM1002


Introduction to Financial Accounting
Develop knowledge and understanding of the underlying principles and concepts relating to financial accounting and technical proficiency. By the use of double-entry accounting techniques including the preparation of basic financial statements.


Module code
BM1100


Introduction to Management Accounting
Gain an understanding of the basic theory, concepts and practices of cost and management accounting. And achieve an understanding and competence to apply the principles and techniques of cost and management accounting to straightforward decision-making problems.


Module code
BM1200


Information Systems and the Business Environment
The overall aim of the Information Systems and the Business Environment module is to develop your understanding of the business challenges, devise and manage solutions. It aims to develop your critical thinking and analytical reasoning for problem-solving.


Module code
BM1300


Legal Obligations in Business
This module will introduce you to accounting and business basic legal rules, principles, and methods. As well as outlining the basic sources, methods of interpretation and institutions of the English Legal System. You'll be encouraged to recognise the application of these legal principles, with reference to hypothetical legal scenarios, particularly in the areas of contract and tort law.


Module code
BM1511


Introduction to Personal and Professional Practice
This module will develop a personal and professional practice to enable you to become more effective and confident in your programme of study. You'll also enhance your skills for future employment in the evolving fields of accounting and finance.


Module code
BM1600


Year 2
Financial Accounting
In this module you'll develop an understanding of accounting in more complex situations, including group accounting scenarios. You will learn new skills and techniques as well as the application of accounting theory.


Module code
BM2100


Companies and the Law
The aims of this module are to explain the basic principles of company law, to encourage you to consider the practical problems which the legal rules are endeavouring to resolve. And to enable you to be in a position where you can critically evaluate the extent to which the rules achieve the desired effect.


Module code
BM2155


Management Accounting
In this module you'll develop a deeper understanding of different management accounting techniques. You'll be able to critically appraise a range of decision-making models. Analyse management accounting problems relating to short term and long-term decision-making. You'll learn how to create financial plans and analyse variances.


Module code
BM2200


Financial Management
In this module you'll appreciate the principles of financial management and decision making. You will discover the different sources of finance available to business. Learn to analyse and evaluate current corporate finance developments in a decision making context.


Module code
BM2400


Accounting Information Systems and Control Issues
Develop your knowledge of AIS and acquire a basic understanding of accounting databases. Learn to critically appraise the development and use of AIS within the context of the finance function. This module also aims to develop a detailed understanding of the necessary relationship between AIS and security and audit issues.


Module code
BM2500


Taxation Theory and Practice
This module aims to enable you to develop competence in the technical and computational issues relating to taxation. You'll also consider the social and economic factors and explore personal, professional, and commercial ethics relating to taxation.


Module code
BM2600


Year 3
Advanced Financial Accounting
This module aims to develop your problem-solving skills of complex issues in financial accounting. You'll develop the ability to critically appraise accounting solutions to real world problems. You will gain an understanding of the advanced financial reporting environment. You'll also gain a thorough grasp of a broad range of specific accounting issues.


Module code
BM3100


Advanced Management Accounting
In this module you'll develop your problem-solving skills of complex issues in management accounting. You'll critically appraise management accounting solutions to real world problems. You will also discuss the relevance and importance of emerging issues in management accounting.


Module code
BM3200


Auditing Theory and Practice
You'll be equipped with the knowledge needed to explain the process of carrying out an audit engagement. You'll also learn how to analyse audit scenarios in the context of the professional regulatory framework.


Module code
BM3300


Corporate Finance
This module will equip you with skills expected of a finance manager. You'll develop skills and knowledge in investment, financing and dividend policy decisions. You will be able to identify and compare alternative sources of business finance, including working capital. You will also be able to explain and calculate the cost of capital and the factors which affect it, including alternative sources of finance. The module enables you to analyse investment decisions as well as principles of business and asset valuations.


Module code
BM3400


Business Strategy
You will learn to develop and implement business strategy. You'll engage with a range of approaches to strategy and will consider your choice or advice in different situations.


Module code
BM3500


Advanced Taxation Theory and Practice
The module will focus on advanced aspects of UK taxation. It will enable you to examine and apply the current UK tax rules and analyse how they interact in a range of scenarios. The module will cover the taxation of individuals and corporates. 


Module code
BM3600
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.






This module offers the opportunity to study abroad, demonstrate initiative, independence, motivation and depending on where they study, a working knowledge of another language.


Module code
BM3008


Global Placement
Consolidate the transferable and subject-specific skills and knowledge you have developed during your study to the real world. Establish a real-world understanding of equality and diversity in the workplace whilst developing industry-specific skills.


Module code
BM3018
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


80%
Face-to-face
20%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Accounting & Financial Studies (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
F524
DELIVERY
In Person
Study abroad optionSandwich option
Foundation Entry degree courses are ideal if you’ve got the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly join an honours programme. It’s entirely unique, and a great stepping stone to degree study.


Read lessabout the Accounting & Financial Studies (Foundation Entry) course
You’ll gain a sound understanding of broad accounting and financial studies, so this course is ideal if you’re interested in a financial or related consultancy career within accountancy, industry or commerce.


Why study with us
1st
in the North West for graduate prospects (on track)
Complete University Guide (Business and Management Studies)
2024
1st
in the North West for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Business and Management Studies)
2024
You'll have access to SAP and SAGE world-renowned software providers.
You’ll get the opportunity to further develop your employability by taking a 48-week paid placement, in accountancy, business and public sector environments.
We have strong links with industry which enhance your learning and employment opportunities.
Interested?
Apply for this course
Next steps
Download
What you'll do
The businesses we work with offer internships, placements, live projects and mentors, so you’ll gain excellent practical experience.
You’ll have the option to study abroad after Year 1, or undertake a placement at the end of Year 2: a 48-week paid placement within industry helps you to put theory into practice, working in a professional business environment.
Attend guest speaker events from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and Chartered Institute of Marketing (CiM).
Modules
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.
Year 0
Enterprise and the Entrepreneur
This module aims to develop your sense of entrepreneurial flair by introducing you to the basics of creative thinking for new business ideas.


Module code
BMC001


Managing Business Information
Understand the relationship between different types of information in the operations and management of successful businesses. You'll conduct primary research, to make sense of what the findings mean and be aware of the limitations. Learn to use appropriate data management and spreadsheet software, effectively and apply mathematical calculations and principles to interpreting simple quantitative information.


Module code
BMC002


Study Skills for Success
This module aims to equip you with the study skills necessary at entry level for academic studies. You'll complete an academic literature review by means of study, facilitated by the module leader and support tutor(s) in order to enhance knowledge in your chosen area of interest. Completion of this module will prepare you to make effective use of learning opportunities in other modules of study and in the workplace.


Module code
BMC005


Contemporary Business in Context
This module aims to raise your awareness of the impact of business in the U.K, investigate business in the news and develop an awareness of the global business context.


Module code
BMC006


Year 1
Introduction to Economics
The module aims to introduce you to the main and well-established principles of economic analysis and to the “economic way of thinking”. If you're studying an accounting-related degree a familiarity with a range of common concepts in economics is required in line with Professional Body requirements. The primary concern is with mainstream micro- and macro-theory within an appropriate institutional context.


Module code
BM1002


Introduction to Financial Accounting
Develop knowledge and understanding of the underlying principles and concepts relating to financial accounting and technical proficiency. By the use of double-entry accounting techniques including the preparation of basic financial statements.


Module code
BM1100


Introduction to Management Accounting
Gain an understanding of the basic theory, concepts and practices of cost and management accounting. And achieve an understanding and competence to apply the principles and techniques of cost and management accounting to straightforward decision-making problems.


Module code
BM1200


Information Systems and the Business Environment
The overall aim of the Information Systems and the Business Environment module is to develop your understanding of the business challenges, devise and manage solutions. It aims to develop your critical thinking and analytical reasoning for problem-solving.


Module code
BM1300


Legal Obligations in Business
This module will introduce you to accounting and business basic legal rules, principles, and methods. As well as outlining the basic sources, methods of interpretation and institutions of the English Legal System. You'll be encouraged to recognise the application of these legal principles, with reference to hypothetical legal scenarios, particularly in the areas of contract and tort law.


Module code
BM1511


Introduction to Personal and Professional Practice
This module will develop a personal and professional practice to enable you to become more effective and confident in your programme of study. You'll also enhance your skills for future employment in the evolving fields of accounting and finance.


Module code
BM1600


Year 2
Data Analytics for Business
The aim of this module is to teach you how data is acquired, cleaned, transformed and visualised. Furthermore, it aims to enable you to


Gain experience and develop an understanding of the discovery and interpretation of meaningful patterns in business data
Find and analyse data for identified business and management problems
Select appropriate approaches to gain insights that help organisations with decision making
Communicate and share data effectively with stakeholders to support evidence-based decision-making.
Module code
BM2008


Financial Accounting for Managers
This module aims to develop your understanding of accounting, uses of financial accounting information and professional ethics. Skills will be developed in techniques as well as the application of accounting theory.


Module code
BM2110


Management Accounting Techniques
Gain an understanding of commonly used management accounting techniques by exploring theories, concepts, and practical applications within business. On completion of the module, you'll be confident and capable to apply these management accounting theories and techniques to business-based scenarios which require informed decisions to be made.


Module code
BM2210


Finance for Managers in Business
This module aims to enable you to appreciate the underlying principles of financial decision-making and be aware of the sources of finance available to business. It'll also help to analyse and evaluate corporate finance in a decision-making context.


Module code
BM2420


Accounting Information Systems and Control Issues
Develop your knowledge of AIS and acquire a basic understanding of accounting databases. Learn to critically appraise the development and use of AIS within the context of the finance function. This module also aims to develop a detailed understanding of the necessary relationship between AIS and security and audit issues.


Module code
BM2500
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Learning and Development for Business and Management Education
Please note this module is compulsory for international direct entrants into Year 2. This module will support your progression in business education; develop core academic competencies and strategies, and develop independent learning.


Module code
BM2002


Companies and the Law
The aims of this module are to explain the basic principles of company law, to encourage you to consider the practical problems which the legal rules are endeavouring to resolve. And to enable you to be in a position where you can critically evaluate the extent to which the rules achieve the desired effect.


Module code
BM2155


Taxation Theory and Practice
This module aims to enable you to develop competence in the technical and computational issues relating to taxation. You'll also consider the social and economic factors and explore personal, professional, and commercial ethics relating to taxation.


Module code
BM2600


Year 3
Financial and Sustainability Reporting for Managers
You'll acquire a deeper comprehension and appreciation of the usefulness of the annually produced financial statements and the accompanying reports of a global company. This will include a focus on sustainability reports and environmental reporting. Furthermore, the module intends to instil the importance of corporate governance and professional ethics in reporting.


Module code
BM3030


Decision Making for Business
Understand advanced management and accounting techniques used by businesses to aid in decision-making. The module will develop your confidence in applying knowledge and skills gained to scenarios. On completion of the module, you should be able to confidently approach business problems with a range of skills and knowledge to tackle them.


Module code
BM3210


Financial Management for Business
The aim of this module is to provide you with a concise understanding of fundamental concepts in financial management as well as introduce investment, financing and dividend decisions.


Module code
BM3410


Business Strategy
This module will provide you with an understanding of the development and implementation of business strategy. The module exposes you to a range of approaches to strategy and invites you to consider and rationalise your choices or advice in different situations.


Module code
BM3506
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Learning and Development for Business and Management Education
Please note this module is compulsory for international direct entrants into Year 2. This module will support your progression in business education; develop core academic competencies and strategies, and develop independent learning.


Module code
BM2002


International Study
This module offers the opportunity to study abroad, demonstrate initiative, independence, motivation and depending on where they study, a working knowledge of another language.


Module code
BM3008


Contemporary Issues in Sustainability
This module will explore the key issues in sustainability, and ethics. It will encourage you to apply this knowledge to critically appraise the complex interactions and trade-offs between environmental, economic, and social objectives.


Module code
BM3009


Global Placement
Consolidate the transferable and subject-specific skills and knowledge you have developed during your study to the real world. Establish a real-world understanding of equality and diversity in the workplace whilst developing industry-specific skills.


Module code
BM3018


Islamic Finance
You'll learn and understand the structure of the Islamic banking and finance industry. This includes its theoretical foundations, products, performance. You'll also cover Islamic financial instruments and risk management issues. Gain an overview of the accounting treatments and disclosures of various Islamic financing activities.


Module code
BM3033


Advanced Taxation Theory and Practice
The module will focus on advanced aspects of UK taxation. It will enable you to examine and apply the current UK tax rules and analyse how they interact in a range of scenarios. The module will cover the taxation of individuals and corporates. 


Module code
BM3600


Accounting & Financial Studies
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
N420
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entryStudy abroad optionSandwich optionStudy in Cyprus
On Accounting and Financial Studies you’ll gain valuable insights into accounting and its varied applications in business life.


Read lessabout the Accounting & Financial Studies course
This course will enable you to develop your business, accounting and financial skills. You’ll look at the decision-making of companies operating globally and develop your knowledge of financial reporting, international accounting and entrepreneurship. You will analyse and interpret data from both financial and non-financial sources to evaluate performance and support decision making. Both financing and investment decisions are considered for organisations operating in a global environment which is competitive and dynamic.


You’ll explore subjects which are fundamental to understanding the financial position of an enterprise. We take a realistic view of accounting and financial studies by recognising the challenges of reliance on financial information for business and personal decision-making and integrate the importance of emerging business information.


This programme provides a strong foundation if you’re considering a career in business or finance. This degree is for those who benefit from assessment mainly through coursework.


If you are joining us in the January intake, this programme is delivered through an accelerated model. This means you will study:


Year 1: January to September 2024
Year 2: September 2024 to June 2025
Year 3: September 2025 to June 2026.
Why study with us
1st
in the North West for graduate prospects (on track)
Complete University Guide (Business and Management Studies)
2024
1st
in the North West for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Business and Management Studies)
2024
You’ll explore subjects which are fundamental to understanding the financial position of an enterprise.
You'll have access to SAP and SAGE world-renowned software providers.
You’ll get the opportunity to further develop your employability by taking a 48-week paid placement, in accountancy, business and public sector environments.
Interested?
Apply for this course
Next steps
Download
What you'll do
You'll gain the skills and experience you need to become financially astute and make real changes – without qualifying as an accountant first. The accounting and financial knowledge you’ll gain is ideal if you’re interested in a working across a wide range of sectors. These sectors include the public sector, business and the charity sector.
You'll study through a combination of methods. The majority of your learning will be through assessments. Assessments develop your practical business skills such as report writing and presentations. You'll undertake some examinations, these will develop your ability to work under pressure, a skill you'll utilise in a future career in accounting and business.
You’ll also get the opportunity to attend practical Sage and Excel workshops. These workshops will help aid your future employability as they are valued by both local and national employers. You will also be studying modules accredited by CIMA.
Modules


Year 1


Year 2


Year 3
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Introduction to Economics
The module aims to introduce you to the main and well-established principles of economic analysis and to the “economic way of thinking”. If you're studying an accounting-related degree a familiarity with a range of common concepts in economics is required in line with Professional Body requirements. The primary concern is with mainstream micro- and macro-theory within an appropriate institutional context.


Module code
BM1002


Introduction to Financial Accounting
Develop knowledge and understanding of the underlying principles and concepts relating to financial accounting and technical proficiency. By the use of double-entry accounting techniques including the preparation of basic financial statements.


Module code
BM1100


Introduction to Management Accounting
Gain an understanding of the basic theory, concepts and practices of cost and management accounting. And achieve an understanding and competence to apply the principles and techniques of cost and management accounting to straightforward decision-making problems.


Module code
BM1200


Information Systems and the Business Environment
The overall aim of the Information Systems and the Business Environment module is to develop your understanding of the business challenges, devise and manage solutions. It aims to develop your critical thinking and analytical reasoning for problem-solving.


Module code
BM1300


Legal Obligations in Business
This module will introduce you to accounting and business basic legal rules, principles, and methods. As well as outlining the basic sources, methods of interpretation and institutions of the English Legal System. You'll be encouraged to recognise the application of these legal principles, with reference to hypothetical legal scenarios, particularly in the areas of contract and tort law.


Module code
BM1511


Introduction to Personal and Professional Practice
This module will develop a personal and professional practice to enable you to become more effective and confident in your programme of study. You'll also enhance your skills for future employment in the evolving fields of accounting and finance.


Module code
BM1600


Data Analytics for Business
The aim of this module is to teach you how data is acquired, cleaned, transformed and visualised. Furthermore, it aims to enable you to


Gain experience and develop an understanding of the discovery and interpretation of meaningful patterns in business data
Find and analyse data for identified business and management problems
Select appropriate approaches to gain insights that help organisations with decision making
Communicate and share data effectively with stakeholders to support evidence-based decision-making.
Module code
BM2008


Financial Accounting for Managers
This module aims to develop your understanding of accounting, uses of financial accounting information and professional ethics. Skills will be developed in techniques as well as the application of accounting theory.


Module code
BM2110


Management Accounting Techniques
Gain an understanding of commonly used management accounting techniques by exploring theories, concepts, and practical applications within business. On completion of the module, you'll be confident and capable to apply these management accounting theories and techniques to business-based scenarios which require informed decisions to be made.


Module code
BM2210


Finance for Managers in Business
This module aims to enable you to appreciate the underlying principles of financial decision-making and be aware of the sources of finance available to business. It'll also help to analyse and evaluate corporate finance in a decision-making context.


Module code
BM2420


Accounting Information Systems and Control Issues
Develop your knowledge of AIS and acquire a basic understanding of accounting databases. Learn to critically appraise the development and use of AIS within the context of the finance function. This module also aims to develop a detailed understanding of the necessary relationship between AIS and security and audit issues.


Module code
BM2500
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Learning and Development for Business and Management Education
Please note this module is compulsory for international direct entrants into Year 2. This module will support your progression in business education; develop core academic competencies and strategies, and develop independent learning.


Module code
BM2002


Companies and the Law
The aims of this module are to explain the basic principles of company law, to encourage you to consider the practical problems which the legal rules are endeavouring to resolve. And to enable you to be in a position where you can critically evaluate the extent to which the rules achieve the desired effect.


Module code
BM2155


Taxation Theory and Practice
This module aims to enable you to develop competence in the technical and computational issues relating to taxation. You'll also consider the social and economic factors and explore personal, professional, and commercial ethics relating to taxation.


Module code
BM2600


Financial and Sustainability Reporting for Managers
You'll acquire a deeper comprehension and appreciation of the usefulness of the annually produced financial statements and the accompanying reports of a global company. This will include a focus on sustainability reports and environmental reporting. Furthermore, the module intends to instil the importance of corporate governance and professional ethics in reporting.


Module code
BM3030


Decision Making for Business
Understand advanced management and accounting techniques used by businesses to aid in decision-making. The module will develop your confidence in applying knowledge and skills gained to scenarios. On completion of the module, you should be able to confidently approach business problems with a range of skills and knowledge to tackle them.


Module code
BM3210


Financial Management for Business
The aim of this module is to provide you with a concise understanding of fundamental concepts in financial management as well as introduce investment, financing and dividend decisions.


Module code
BM3410


Business Strategy
This module will provide you with an understanding of the development and implementation of business strategy. The module exposes you to a range of approaches to strategy and invites you to consider and rationalise your choices or advice in different situations.


Module code
BM3506
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Learning and Development for Business and Management Education
Please note this module is compulsory for international direct entrants into Year 2. This module will support your progression in business education; develop core academic competencies and strategies, and develop independent learning.


Module code
BM2002


International Study
This module offers the opportunity to study abroad, demonstrate initiative, independence, motivation and depending on where they study, a working knowledge of another language.


Module code
BM3008


Contemporary Issues in Sustainability
This module will explore the key issues in sustainability, and ethics. It will encourage you to apply this knowledge to critically appraise the complex interactions and trade-offs between environmental, economic, and social objectives.


Module code
BM3009


Global Placement
Consolidate the transferable and subject-specific skills and knowledge you have developed during your study to the real world. Establish a real-world understanding of equality and diversity in the workplace whilst developing industry-specific skills.


Module code
BM3018


Islamic Finance
You'll learn and understand the structure of the Islamic banking and finance industry. This includes its theoretical foundations, products, performance. You'll also cover Islamic financial instruments and risk management issues. Gain an overview of the accounting treatments and disclosures of various Islamic financing activities.


Module code
BM3033


Advanced Taxation Theory and Practice
The module will focus on advanced aspects of UK taxation. It will enable you to examine and apply the current UK tax rules and analyse how they interact in a range of scenarios. The module will cover the taxation of individuals and corporates. 


Module code
BM3600
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


80%
Face-to-face
20%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Please note that for Year 2, the AC2300 module is not available to international students entering directly into Year 2 of the programme. The BC2002 module is compulsory only for international students entering directly into Year 2 of the programme.


For those studying in Year 3, the AC3830 module is not available to international students entering directly into Year 3 of the programme. The BC2002 module is compulsory only for international students entering directly into Year 3 of the programme.
Acting
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
W410
DELIVERY
In Person
This unique actor training programme taught by industry professionals provides you with the skills and knowledge to work as an actor on screen stage and in digital media.


Read lessabout the Acting course
The industry driven BA (Hons) Acting course teaches you everything you need to know about being a contemporary actor. Your training involves movement, voice, classical text, rehearsal processes, acting for screen, radio and voiceover along with devising and professional preparation. You will graduate industry ready, complete with a showreel, voice-reel and professional headshots.


Our Acting BA (Hons) programme is highly practical and geared toward performance. You will appear in directed public performances in your second and third year, including industry showcases in Manchester and London.


This is a well established course, with results that speak for themselves. Former students have appeared in high profile screen roles in some of the UK’s top TV dramas and worked in theatre for companies including The Royal Shakespeare Company, The National Theatre and The Royal Exchange. Graduates from this course have also formed companies, producing their own work with the support of Arts Council England funding.


Why study with us
100%
of students are satisfied with the academic support received on the course
National Student Survey (Acting)
2023
100%
of students are satisfied with the teaching on the course
National Student Survey (Acting)
2023
This is production-based course, with the majority of your work directed towards performance, including to the public.
Research informed teaching including Meyerhold’s Biomechanics.
Our graduates include Mandip Gill (Yasmin in Doctor Who), Nathan Wood (Waterloo Road), Channique Sterling Brown (Coronation Street), Freddie Bolt (Ackley Bridge), Jordan Reece (Emmerdale), Riley Carter (Eastenders), Sarah George, Alexa Lee and Gary Hanks (Hollyoaks).
Interested?
Apply for this course
Next steps
Download
Creativity matters alumni arts and musicPlay Video - Hear from Acting Alumni Imogen WoodwardHear from Acting Alumni Imogen Woodward
Slide 1 of 4
Previous slide
Next slide
Person in overalls throwing white paint on living room wallPlay Video - Creativity Matters.Creativity Matters.
Creativity matters alumni, arts, music and actingPlay Video - Hear from Acting Alumni Dylan HopkinsHear from Acting Alumni Dylan Hopkins
GV83 Janet HampsonPlay Video - Janet Hampson gives her advice to our Acting studentsJanet Hampson gives her advice to our Acting students
GV91 cJAM PerformancePlay Video - Discover cJAM Performance, our networking event for studentsDiscover cJAM Performance, our networking event for students
NEXT
Hear from Acting Alumni Dylan Hopkins


What you'll do
Your studies will be practice based, emphasising the importance of technique - learning in workshops and assessed through performance.
This is a production-based course, with the majority of your work directed towards performance, including to the public.
You’ll learn from tutors who are experienced performing artists –professionals with a national, if not international, reputation.
Modules


Year 1


Year 2


Year 3
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Acting Fundamentals
This module offers a range of sessions in movement-based, vocal, and textual practices to enable you to develop essential skills as an actor/performer. You will develop technique in improvisation and expressivity with specialist tuition in two essential acting techniques, laying the foundation for further exploration in Year 2.


Module code
AT1008


Acting for Theatre 1
Throughout this module, acting classes are tutor-directed production. The production will suit the group range and interests as well as the needs of audiences. Work may include contemporary approaches to classical texts, devised work, and non-western theatre. You will also take responsibility for production with professional technical support.


Module code
AT2010


The Expressive Actor
This module encourages you to make psycho-physical, imaginative and intellectual connections with ‘the rediscovery of theatricality’ in the 20th and 21st century by modernist and postmodernist theatre artists.


Module code
AT2011


The Contemporary Actor
You will have an introduction to contemporary texts and the role of the actor. The module develops skills related to theatre, radio, and television scripts. You will practice acting techniques used for radio and television. You will look at differing acting styles, microphone techniques, camera awareness, and shots or angles. It will also familiarise you with the grammar encountered in these environments.


Module code
AT2012


Acting for Theatre 2
You'll work on a real production and perform to a public audience in this module. You'll be expected to put into practice many of the acting techniques acquired over the previous years however this module will focus on analysis and understanding of the text and the techniques used to explore the play and character.


Module code
AT3010


The Actor as Creator
In this module you'll produce a piece of work to be shown to the public, put many acting techniques into practice. You'll gain the opportunity to investigate the concept of the actor as a creator and develop a creative or performance skill.


Module code
AT3011


The Professional Actor
This module will prepare you to gain entry into the acting profession. You'll learn the structure of life as an actor and the organisations such as Equity, Spotlight and Casting Networks you'll be a part of. You'll look at casting, audition technique and building your own website, as well as financial matters to aid you.


Module code
AT3012
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
What can I do with an acting degree?
Our BA (Hons) Acting course offers a programme of industry-focused, highly vocational training designed to prepare you for the realities of a career in the acting profession.


Read less
Although a relatively new course, we have an impressive track record of helping young actors make their way in the profession – in particular, building a strong reputation for producing talented young screen actors, with recent graduates appearing regularly in leading UK TV dramas. Hear from Acting graduate, Mandip Gill about her success on Dr Who. 


Throughout the Acting BA, you’ll find an approach that is exciting, supportive, highly practical, vocational and performance focused. We will equip you with the skills which not only make you employable but also enable you to be creative.


During your final year, you’ll receive individual professional mentoring and appear in live Industry showcases in Manchester and London. Your online portfolio, including headshots, showreel and voice-reel, will feature on the University’s digital showcase, our very own graduate portal. This course is recognised by Spotlight and Equity and you will be eligible to for membership of both.


Throughout our acting degree you will also have opportunities to take part in extra -curricular activities and projects, designed to not only encourage students and graduates to be pro-active in creating their own work but also to provide industry experience, extra training opportunities and give support and advice.


Upon graduation we encourage you to stay in touch with us during your first years in the industry for professional advice and guidance, audition coaching, use of facilities and collaboration on creative projects. On average, 75% of our graduates find agents after appearing in our showcases. 
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 96 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MMM
BTEC Diploma: DD
Pass Access Course: 96 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 96 points from Higher Level subjects
T Level: P (C+)
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Applicants must attend an audition- you will be sent an email by our Admissions Office asking you to book onto a selection day event
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Additional costs
As part of your course there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees. Most of these will be optional, but some courses have essential additional costs. Find out more about additional costs.


Aerospace Engineering (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
B3A6
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Fascinated by aircraft, spacecraft and their technologies? Our Aerospace Engineering Foundation Entry degree is the course for you. You’ll work on a range of vehicles for design, analysis, simulation and test.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering (Foundation Entry) course
Foundation Entry degree courses are designed for students who have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly enter their chosen Honours degree programme.


You’ll learn about aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, systems, flight dynamics, mechanical engineering and computer-aided design. And you’ll apply this to the analysis and design of flying vehicles.


Our course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry for full-time students between Year 2 and Year 3.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
You’ll work creatively on an aerospace-related subject for your research project and you’ll get involved with unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) for civil applications.
A group design project will give you valuable experience in team working and development processes.
Bachelor of Engineering with Honours in Aerospace Engineering (Foundation Entry) is ranked 4th in the UK with 81% of students satisfied with the teaching quality (Times Good University Guide 2021)
Interested?
Apply for this course
Next steps
Download
Slide 1 of 9
Previous slide
Next slide
GV78 ZachPlay Video - Zach tells us about his time studying Aerospace EngineeringZach tells us about his time studying Aerospace Engineering
GV114 Manufacturing EngineeringPlay Video - Take a look at our amazing Engineering Innovation CentreTake a look at our amazing Engineering Innovation Centre
aerospace-and-mechanical-engineering-careers-fair-video-coverPlay Video - Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Careers FairAerospace and Mechanical Engineering Careers Fair
Aerospace Engineering CS KieranPlay Video - Kieran talks about his placement opportunitiesKieran talks about his placement opportunities
Aerospace Engineering CS MaryamPlay Video - Maryam talks about her placement opportunitiesMaryam talks about her placement opportunities
student wearing graduation robePlay Video - Kieran Steele - MEng Aerospace EngineeringKieran Steele - MEng Aerospace Engineering
Students using our engineering facilitiesPlay Video - Sub and Supersonic Wind Tunnel FacilitiesSub and Supersonic Wind Tunnel Facilities
Afaq and Amaan smile at the camera in their graduation attirePlay Video - Afaq Choudary & Amaan Sohail - BEng (Hons) Aerospace EngineeringAfaq Choudary & Amaan Sohail - BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering
Ethan smiles at the camera in his graduation attirePlay Video - Ethan Cain - BEng (Hons) Aerospace EngineeringEthan Cain - BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering
NEXT
Take a look at our amazing Engineering Innovation Centre


What you'll do
This course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry between the second and third years.
You’ll access lectures and masterclasses on topics such as the effective use of computer-aided design software, computational fluid dynamics, and finite element analysis.
You’ll be encouraged to join the Royal Aeronautical Society and to participate in local branch events alongside your studies.
Modules


Year 0


Year 1


Year 2


Year 3
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study Skills and Information Technology
This module has been created to equip you with the information, skills and knowledge to help you succeed in your chosen route of academic study in engineering. 


Module code
ERC007


Fundamental Tools for Engineers
This module is an introduction to engineering drawing and computer aided design tools, including MATLAB. This will support you in your subsequent years of study.


Module code
ERC015


Design Studies for Engineers
This module is designed to equip you with a range of design knowledge, skills and experience relevant to your chosen route of academic study within Engineering.


Module code
ERC016


Analytical Studies for Engineers
This module will equip you with the basic analytical skills and knowledge needed for your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a range of analytical skills that are used for real-world problems.


Module code
ERC017


Fundamentals of Engineering Practice
This module will equip you with the fundamental principles, practical skills and hands-on experience relevant to your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a practical working environment.


Module code
ERC018


Foundation Mathematics
This module is designed to help you develop and reinforce basic mathematical skills needed for study in science, engineering, and computing subjects. Emphasis will be placed on building confidence and competence in a range of mathematical skills that are used in real-world problems.


Module code
MAC101


Aerospace Vehicle Systems
On this module you'll analyse the functionality of each aerospace vehicle system. You'll also learn methods for safety assessment in relation to the design, reliability, safety and certification of vehicle systems.


Module code
EI1011


Introduction to Aerospace Engineering
You'll be introduced to the basic concepts, theories and methodologies needed for the analysis of simple deformable structural components. You'll also learn about the generation of lift and drag on lifting surfaces operating in incompressible flows.


Module code
EI1012


Design and Sustainability
This module aims to develop your knowledge and skills in Engineering Design. You'll develop skills in design methodology, computer aided design, technical drawing and sustainable design.


Module code
ER1003


Engineering Analysis
This module enables you to recognise and use essential core mathematical methods and computational analysis to support further study of engineering and technology.


Module code
ER1004


Engineering Practice
This module imparts knowledge of computer-aided design, programming, digital electronics, and manufacturing techniques. It readies you for diverse engineering tasks involving system design, manufacturing, and testing in various disciplines.


Module code
ER1005


Aerospace Design and Manufacturing
On this module you'll be introduced to fixed-wing aircraft design and optimisation using Systems Engineering principles. You'll practically analyse the basics of aircraft aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, and control to design and manufacture a fully integrated UAV.


Module code
EI2007


Space Systems
This module provides a technical overview of spacecraft flight and subsystems. You'll develop analytical and simulation techniques and skills for spacecraft mission planning.


Module code
EI2008


Vehicle Aerodynamics & Structures
You'll get a better understanding of fluid mechanics, emphasising high-speed compressible flow theory and its application to aircraft problems. You'll also apply stress analysis on aircraft components, and gain an appreciation for the interaction between aerodynamic loads and structural deformations.


Module code
EI2009


Thermo-fluids
This module will introduce you to the principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics in the context of aerodynamics and heat engines and motor sports engineering. It will develop your problem solving, mathematical modelling and computational modelling skills.


Module code
MP2576


Operations Management A
In this module you will develop the skills and knowledge that is needed to be able to participate in an operations management team.


Module code
MP2721
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Computer Aided Design and Simulation
On this module you'll further your knowledge of Computer Aided Design and Computer Aided Simulation as used in the engineering industry.


Module code
MP2715


Further Engineering Mathematics and Simulation
This module aims to further develop your analytical knowledge and techniques necessary to analyse and solve a variety of engineering situations and problems.


Module code
SC2153
Aerospace Advanced Material & Structural Analysis
This module looks at structural analysis, emphasising static stress analysis for elastic continua, including two-dimensional structures. You'll learn finite element methods for computational analysis using ANSYS/Comsol, aiming to understand key concepts in advanced fibre-reinforced composite structure design.


Module code
EI3011


Flight Dynamics and Control
This module covers aircraft flight dynamics, stability, and control systems. It emphasises the importance of stability analysis and the inclusion of Stability Augmentation Systems (SAS) for improved control loop performance.


Module code
EI3012


Aerospace Propulsion
Our module aims to explore contemporary trends in technological developments. You will be provided a technical overview of main engine types and applications. You will also study scientific frameworks and research methods around calculating engine performance.


Module code
EI3040


Engineering Project with Sustainability
This module involves planning, executing, and reporting on an engineering project. The project includes investigation, analysis, design, evaluation, testing, and manufacturing, based on current research or development.


Module code
MP3000


Computational Fluid Dynamics
In this module, you will understand the complete process required to develop and compute a solution to a problem in fluid dynamics. You will perform a numerical CFD simulation of a simple flow of engineering interest.


Module code
MP3200


Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year


Additional costs
As part of your course there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees. Most of these will be optional, but some courses have essential additional costs. Find out more about additional costs.
Aerospace Engineering (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
5 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
B4A6
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Fascinated by aircraft, spacecraft and their technologies? Our Aerospace Engineering Foundation Entry Degree is the course for you. You’ll work on a range of vehicles for design, analysis, simulation and test.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering (Foundation Entry) course
You’ll learn about aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, systems, flight dynamics, mechanical engineering, and computer-aided design.


You’ll complete a creative aerospace-related research project and a group design project across your time at university, providing you with valuable team working experience.


You’ll graduate with a rounded education in aerospace engineering, be prepared for a wide range of career options, taking ideas from concept through to flight.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
A group design project will give you valuable experience in team working and development processes.
You’ll get involved with unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) for civil applications.


What you'll do
This five-year master’s-level course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry, making it a six-year master’s programme.
You’ll access lectures and masterclasses on topics such as the effective use of computer-aided design software, computational fluid dynamics, and finite element analysis.
You’ll be encouraged to join the Royal Aeronautical Society and to participate in local branch events alongside your studies.


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study Skills and Information Technology
This module has been created to equip you with the information, skills and knowledge to help you succeed in your chosen route of academic study in engineering. 


Module code
ERC007


Fundamental Tools for Engineers
This module is an introduction to engineering drawing and computer aided design tools, including MATLAB. This will support you in your subsequent years of study.


Module code
ERC015


Design Studies for Engineers
This module is designed to equip you with a range of design knowledge, skills and experience relevant to your chosen route of academic study within Engineering.


Module code
ERC016


Analytical Studies for Engineers
This module will equip you with the basic analytical skills and knowledge needed for your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a range of analytical skills that are used for real-world problems.


Module code
ERC017


Fundamentals of Engineering Practice
This module will equip you with the fundamental principles, practical skills and hands-on experience relevant to your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a practical working environment.


Module code
ERC018


Foundation Mathematics
This module is designed to help you develop and reinforce basic mathematical skills needed for study in science, engineering, and computing subjects. Emphasis will be placed on building confidence and competence in a range of mathematical skills that are used in real-world problems.


Module code
MAC101
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


90%
Face-to-face
10%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.


Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level subjects.
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: grade 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at Grade C /4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
AE90
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Combine the practical and theoretical aspects of flying with the underlying principles of aerospace engineering on our Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies Foundation Entry Degree course.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry) course
Foundation Entry degree courses are designed for students who have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly enter their chosen Honours degree programme.


Gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.


The University has excellent aerospace facilities including a full motion simulator and several flight training devices, allowing you to benefit from the practical application of theories taught in the classroom. Configure them to aircraft types such as civil aircraft, helicopters and even the Space Shuttle.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
You’ll undertake ‘Private Pilot License (PPL)’ theoretical studies in your 2nd year.
Fine tune your practical skills using the University’s excellent flight simulators.
You’ll get involved with unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) for civil applications.
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
What you'll do
This course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry between the second and third years.
You’ll access lectures and masterclasses on topics such as the effective use of computer-aided design software, computational fluid dynamics, and finite element analysis.
Our flight training school partners cover the practical flying components of the PPL (typically 45 hours), for an additional fee.


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study Skills and Information Technology
This module has been created to equip you with the information, skills and knowledge to help you succeed in your chosen route of academic study in engineering. 


Module code
ERC007


Fundamental Tools for Engineers
This module is an introduction to engineering drawing and computer aided design tools, including MATLAB. This will support you in your subsequent years of study.


Module code
ERC015


Design Studies for Engineers
This module is designed to equip you with a range of design knowledge, skills and experience relevant to your chosen route of academic study within Engineering.


Module code
ERC016


Analytical Studies for Engineers
This module will equip you with the basic analytical skills and knowledge needed for your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a range of analytical skills that are used for real-world problems.


Module code
ERC017


Fundamentals of Engineering Practice
This module will equip you with the fundamental principles, practical skills and hands-on experience relevant to your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a practical working environment.


Module code
ERC018


Foundation Mathematics
This module is designed to help you develop and reinforce basic mathematical skills needed for study in science, engineering, and computing subjects. Emphasis will be placed on building confidence and competence in a range of mathematical skills that are used in real-world problems.


Module code
MAC101


Aerospace Vehicle Systems
On this module you'll analyse the functionality of each aerospace vehicle system. You'll also learn methods for safety assessment in relation to the design, reliability, safety and certification of vehicle systems.


Module code
EI1011


Introduction to Aerospace Engineering
You'll be introduced to the basic concepts, theories and methodologies needed for the analysis of simple deformable structural components. You'll also learn about the generation of lift and drag on lifting surfaces operating in incompressible flows.


Module code
EI1012


Design and Sustainability
This module aims to develop your knowledge and skills in Engineering Design. You'll develop skills in design methodology, computer aided design, technical drawing and sustainable design.


Module code
ER1003


Engineering Analysis
This module enables you to recognise and use essential core mathematical methods and computational analysis to support further study of engineering and technology.


Module code
ER1004


Engineering Practice
This module imparts knowledge of computer-aided design, programming, digital electronics, and manufacturing techniques. It readies you for diverse engineering tasks involving system design, manufacturing, and testing in various disciplines.


Module code
ER1005


Engineering Science & Analysis
This module introduces core principles of thermal and fluid engineering. You'll also learn problem-solving techniques and essential engineering practices, including relevant measurement methods. 


Module code
ER1210


Aerospace Design and Manufacturing
On this module you'll be introduced to fixed-wing aircraft design and optimisation using Systems Engineering principles. You'll practically analyse the basics of aircraft aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, and control to design and manufacture a fully integrated UAV.


Module code
EI2007


Space Systems
This module provides a technical overview of spacecraft flight and subsystems. You'll develop analytical and simulation techniques and skills for spacecraft mission planning.


Module code
EI2008


Vehicle Aerodynamics & Structures
You'll get a better understanding of fluid mechanics, emphasising high-speed compressible flow theory and its application to aircraft problems. You'll also apply stress analysis on aircraft components, and gain an appreciation for the interaction between aerodynamic loads and structural deformations.


Module code
EI2009


Pilot Operations PPL
On this module you'll be introduced to the principle facts regarding aviation theory for Pilot training. You'll apply a range of methods for Technical and Navigation subjects and develop practical skills in Flight Planning, Performance and Weather Forecasting.


Module code
EI2030


Thermo-fluids
This module will introduce you to the principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics in the context of aerodynamics and heat engines and motor sports engineering. It will develop your problem solving, mathematical modelling and computational modelling skills.


Module code
MP2576


Operations Management A
In this module you will develop the skills and knowledge that is needed to be able to participate in an operations management team.


Module code
MP2721
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Computer Aided Design and Simulation
On this module you'll further your knowledge of Computer Aided Design and Computer Aided Simulation as used in the engineering industry.


Module code
MP2715


Further Engineering Mathematics and Simulation
This module aims to further develop your analytical knowledge and techniques necessary to analyse and solve a variety of engineering situations and problems.


Module code
SC2153


Aerospace Advanced Material & Structural Analysis
This module looks at structural analysis, emphasising static stress analysis for elastic continua, including two-dimensional structures. You'll learn finite element methods for computational analysis using ANSYS/Comsol, aiming to understand key concepts in advanced fibre-reinforced composite structure design.


Module code
EI3011


Flight Dynamics and Control
This module covers aircraft flight dynamics, stability, and control systems. It emphasises the importance of stability analysis and the inclusion of Stability Augmentation Systems (SAS) for improved control loop performance.


Module code
EI3012


Aerospace Propulsion
Our module aims to explore contemporary trends in technological developments. You will be provided a technical overview of main engine types and applications. You will also study scientific frameworks and research methods around calculating engine performance.


Module code
EI3040


Engineering Project with Sustainability
This module involves planning, executing, and reporting on an engineering project. The project includes investigation, analysis, design, evaluation, testing, and manufacturing, based on current research or development.


Module code
MP3000


Computational Fluid Dynamics
In this module, you will understand the complete process required to develop and compute a solution to a problem in fluid dynamics. You will perform a numerical CFD simulation of a simple flow of engineering interest.


Module code
MP3200


Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Aerospace Engineering graduates go on to roles in the aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy and manufacturing sectors.  


Read less
If you’re interested in the scientific and mathematical aspects of the discipline, you can continue on to a career in research and teaching, including postgraduate aerospace research degrees here at the University.


If you would like a future career as a commercial pilot, we offer our integrated  MEng programme, which introduces ‘Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL)’ theoretical studies in Year 4. The university examinations prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after graduation.


Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level subjects.
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: grade 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at Grade C /4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year


Additional costs
As part of your course there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees. Most of these will be optional, but some courses have essential additional costs. Find out more about additional costs.
Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
5 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
AP90
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Combine the practical and theoretical aspects of flying with the underlying principles of aerospace engineering on our Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies Foundation Entry degree course.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry) course
Foundation Entry degree courses are designed for students who have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly enter their chosen Honours degree programme.


Gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.


The University has excellent aerospace facilities including a full motion simulator and several flight training devices, allowing you to benefit from the practical application of theories taught in the classroom. Configure them to aircraft types such as civil aircraft, helicopters and even the Space Shuttle.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
You’ll undertake ‘Private Pilot License (PPL)’ theoretical studies in your 2nd year and ‘Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL)’ theoretical studies in your 4th year.
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
The university examinations prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after graduation.
What you'll do
This course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry.
You’ll access lectures and masterclasses on topics such as the effective use of computer-aided design software, computational fluid dynamics, and finite element analysis.
Our flight training school partners cover the practical flying components of the PPL (typically 45 hours), for an additional fee.


Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study Skills and Information Technology
This module has been created to equip you with the information, skills and knowledge to help you succeed in your chosen route of academic study in engineering. 


Module code
ERC007


Fundamental Tools for Engineers
This module is an introduction to engineering drawing and computer aided design tools, including MATLAB. This will support you in your subsequent years of study.


Module code
ERC015


Design Studies for Engineers
This module is designed to equip you with a range of design knowledge, skills and experience relevant to your chosen route of academic study within Engineering.


Module code
ERC016


Analytical Studies for Engineers
This module will equip you with the basic analytical skills and knowledge needed for your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a range of analytical skills that are used for real-world problems.


Module code
ERC017


Fundamentals of Engineering Practice
This module will equip you with the fundamental principles, practical skills and hands-on experience relevant to your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a practical working environment.


Module code
ERC018


Foundation Mathematics
This module is designed to help you develop and reinforce basic mathematical skills needed for study in science, engineering, and computing subjects. Emphasis will be placed on building confidence and competence in a range of mathematical skills that are used in real-world problems.


Module code
MAC101
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Aerospace Engineering graduates go on to roles in the aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy and manufacturing sectors.  


Read less
If you’re interested in the scientific and mathematical aspects of the discipline, you can continue on to a career in research and teaching, including postgraduate aerospace research degrees here at the University.


If you would like a future career as a commercial pilot, the university examinations prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after graduation.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level subjects.
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: grade 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at Grade C /4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
5 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
AP90
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Combine the practical and theoretical aspects of flying with the underlying principles of aerospace engineering on our Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies Foundation Entry degree course.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies (Foundation Entry) course
Foundation Entry degree courses are designed for students who have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly enter their chosen Honours degree programme.


Gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.


The University has excellent aerospace facilities including a full motion simulator and several flight training devices, allowing you to benefit from the practical application of theories taught in the classroom. Configure them to aircraft types such as civil aircraft, helicopters and even the Space Shuttle.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
You’ll undertake ‘Private Pilot License (PPL)’ theoretical studies in your 2nd year and ‘Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL)’ theoretical studies in your 4th year.
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
The university examinations prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after graduation.


What you'll do
This course offers an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry.
You’ll access lectures and masterclasses on topics such as the effective use of computer-aided design software, computational fluid dynamics, and finite element analysis.
Our flight training school partners cover the practical flying components of the PPL (typically 45 hours), for an additional fee.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study Skills and Information Technology
This module has been created to equip you with the information, skills and knowledge to help you succeed in your chosen route of academic study in engineering. 


Module code
ERC007


Fundamental Tools for Engineers
This module is an introduction to engineering drawing and computer aided design tools, including MATLAB. This will support you in your subsequent years of study.


Module code
ERC015


Design Studies for Engineers
This module is designed to equip you with a range of design knowledge, skills and experience relevant to your chosen route of academic study within Engineering.


Module code
ERC016


Analytical Studies for Engineers
This module will equip you with the basic analytical skills and knowledge needed for your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a range of analytical skills that are used for real-world problems.


Module code
ERC017


Fundamentals of Engineering Practice
This module will equip you with the fundamental principles, practical skills and hands-on experience relevant to your course. It will emphasise building confidence and competence in a practical working environment.


Module code
ERC018


Foundation Mathematics
This module is designed to help you develop and reinforce basic mathematical skills needed for study in science, engineering, and computing subjects. Emphasis will be placed on building confidence and competence in a range of mathematical skills that are used in real-world problems.


Module code
MAC101
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Aerospace Engineering graduates go on to roles in the aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy and manufacturing sectors.  


Read less
If you’re interested in the scientific and mathematical aspects of the discipline, you can continue on to a career in research and teaching, including postgraduate aerospace research degrees here at the University.


If you would like a future career as a commercial pilot, the university examinations prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after graduation.


Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level subjects.
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: grade 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at Grade C /4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies


ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
AE10
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entrySandwich option
Are you fascinated by aircraft? This course combines the practical and theoretical aspects of flying with the underlying principles of Aerospace Engineering.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies course
Benefit from the practical application of what you learn in the classroom in our full motion simulator.


You’ll undertake Private Pilot License (PPL) theoretical studies in Year 2. Successful completion of this is determined by passing the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) Private Pilot’s Licence Examinations.


CAA examinations are an essential component of a PPL. This degree doesn’t include the practical flying components of the PPL (typically 45 hours) but we partner with a flight training school who will offer those for an additional fee.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
You will undertake ‘Private Pilot Licence (PPL)’ theoretical studies in your 2nd year.
There’s an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry for full-time students between Year 2 and Year 3.
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
What you'll do
You’ll graduate with a rounded education in aerospace engineering which can lead to a wide range of career options.
Our Engineering Innovation Centre enables you to work on real-world projects with commercial partners in state-of-the-art facilities.
Fine tune your practical skills using the University’s excellent flight simulators and UAV lab.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Aerospace Vehicle Systems
On this module you'll analyse the functionality of each aerospace vehicle system. You'll also learn methods for safety assessment in relation to the design, reliability, safety and certification of vehicle systems.


Module code
EI1011


Introduction to Aerospace Engineering
You'll be introduced to the basic concepts, theories and methodologies needed for the analysis of simple deformable structural components. You'll also learn about the generation of lift and drag on lifting surfaces operating in incompressible flows.


Module code
EI1012


Design and Sustainability
This module aims to develop your knowledge and skills in Engineering Design. You'll develop skills in design methodology, computer aided design, technical drawing and sustainable design.


Module code
ER1003


Engineering Analysis
This module enables you to recognise and use essential core mathematical methods and computational analysis to support further study of engineering and technology.


Module code
ER1004


Engineering Practice
This module imparts knowledge of computer-aided design, programming, digital electronics, and manufacturing techniques. It readies you for diverse engineering tasks involving system design, manufacturing, and testing in various disciplines.


Module code
ER1005


Engineering Science & Analysis
This module introduces core principles of thermal and fluid engineering. You'll also learn problem-solving techniques and essential engineering practices, including relevant measurement methods. 


Module code
ER1210


Aerospace Design and Manufacturing
On this module you'll be introduced to fixed-wing aircraft design and optimisation using Systems Engineering principles. You'll practically analyse the basics of aircraft aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, and control to design and manufacture a fully integrated UAV.


Module code
EI2007


Space Systems
This module provides a technical overview of spacecraft flight and subsystems. You'll develop analytical and simulation techniques and skills for spacecraft mission planning.


Module code
EI2008


Vehicle Aerodynamics & Structures
You'll get a better understanding of fluid mechanics, emphasising high-speed compressible flow theory and its application to aircraft problems. You'll also apply stress analysis on aircraft components, and gain an appreciation for the interaction between aerodynamic loads and structural deformations.


Module code
EI2009


Pilot Operations PPL
On this module you'll be introduced to the principle facts regarding aviation theory for Pilot training. You'll apply a range of methods for Technical and Navigation subjects and develop practical skills in Flight Planning, Performance and Weather Forecasting.


Module code
EI2030


Thermo-fluids
This module will introduce you to the principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics in the context of aerodynamics and heat engines and motor sports engineering. It will develop your problem solving, mathematical modelling and computational modelling skills.


Module code
MP2576


Operations Management A
In this module you will develop the skills and knowledge that is needed to be able to participate in an operations management team.


Module code
MP2721
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Computer Aided Design and Simulation
On this module you'll further your knowledge of Computer Aided Design and Computer Aided Simulation as used in the engineering industry.


Module code
MP2715


Further Engineering Mathematics and Simulation
This module aims to further develop your analytical knowledge and techniques necessary to analyse and solve a variety of engineering situations and problems.


Module code
SC2153


Aerospace Advanced Material & Structural Analysis
This module looks at structural analysis, emphasising static stress analysis for elastic continua, including two-dimensional structures. You'll learn finite element methods for computational analysis using ANSYS/Comsol, aiming to understand key concepts in advanced fibre-reinforced composite structure design.


Module code
EI3011


Flight Dynamics and Control
This module covers aircraft flight dynamics, stability, and control systems. It emphasises the importance of stability analysis and the inclusion of Stability Augmentation Systems (SAS) for improved control loop performance.


Module code
EI3012


Aerospace Propulsion
Our module aims to explore contemporary trends in technological developments. You will be provided a technical overview of main engine types and applications. You will also study scientific frameworks and research methods around calculating engine performance.


Module code
EI3040


Engineering Project with Sustainability
This module involves planning, executing, and reporting on an engineering project. The project includes investigation, analysis, design, evaluation, testing, and manufacturing, based on current research or development.


Module code
MP3000


Computational Fluid Dynamics
In this module, you will understand the complete process required to develop and compute a solution to a problem in fluid dynamics. You will perform a numerical CFD simulation of a simple flow of engineering interest.


Module code
MP3200
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
View the course facilities
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators and a UAV Lab.


You’ll take to the skies in our immersive flight simulators, including the Redbird FMX, which will help reinforce your understanding of flight dynamics.
Future Careers
Studying Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies leads to careers in the aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy and manufacturing sectors. 


Read less
Progression to MEng course


After completing three years of full-time study you’ll have the option to graduate with a BEng (Hons) degree (it will take four years to reach this stage if you choose to go on a 48-week industrial placement in-between Years 2 and 3). You can then choose to undertake an additional year of advanced study and graduate with an MEng (Hons) degree instead (this normally takes four years to complete in all, or five years with an industrial placement).


The MEng option is ideal if you aspire to become a commercial pilot. It introduces Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL) theoretical studies in Year 4. These are university examinations designed to prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after you’ve graduated. You’ll be able to make use of our simulation facilities to further develop your flying skills, and practical flying can be arranged at additional cost with our flight training school partners. This is a great way to gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 104 points at A2 including Maths and Physics or STEM at grade C
BTEC Extended Diploma: DMM in Engineering including Maths units. Please see UCAS for specific unit requirements
Pass Access Course: 104 points including 15 level 3 credits in Maths and Physics or STEM at Merit
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass with 104 points from Higher Level subjects including Higher Level 6 in Maths and Physics or STEM
T Level: M including Maths and Physics. Please see UCAS for a list of the T Levels we can accept
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Not got the grades?
Our Foundation Entry programme could be exactly what you're looking for. It provides an alternative route to study for this degree.


Find out moreabout foundation entry programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Sandwich year
£1,500 for the sandwich year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
AP10
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entrySandwich option
Are you fascinated by aircraft? This course combines the practical and theoretical aspects of flying with the underlying principles of Aerospace Engineering.


Read lessabout the Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies course
Benefit from the practical application of what you learn in the classroom in our full motion simulator. This programme is an ideal way to gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.


You’ll undertake Private Pilot License (PPL) theoretical studies in Year 2. Successful completion of this is determined by passing the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) Private Pilot’s Licence Examinations.


CAA examinations are an essential component of a PPL. This degree doesn’t include the practical flying components of the PPL (typically 45 hours) but we partner with a flight training school who will offer those for an additional fee.


In Year 4 you’ll be introduced to Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL) theoretical studies. These are university examinations designed to prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after you’ve graduated – ideal if you want to become a commercial pilot in the future.


Why study with us
Top
10
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
10
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators, subsonic and supersonic wind tunnels and a UAV Lab.
You’ll undertake Private Pilot License (PPL) theoretical studies in Year 2.
There’s an optional 48-week sandwich placement in industry for full-time students between Year 2 and Year 3.
What you'll do
You’ll graduate with a rounded education in aerospace engineering which can lead to a wide range of career options.
Our Engineering Innovation Centre enables you to work on real-world projects with commercial partners in state-of-the-art facilities.
Fine tune your practical skills using the University’s excellent flight simulators and UAV lab.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Aerospace Vehicle Systems
On this module you'll analyse the functionality of each aerospace vehicle system. You'll also learn methods for safety assessment in relation to the design, reliability, safety and certification of vehicle systems.


Module code
EI1011


Introduction to Aerospace Engineering
You'll be introduced to the basic concepts, theories and methodologies needed for the analysis of simple deformable structural components. You'll also learn about the generation of lift and drag on lifting surfaces operating in incompressible flows.


Module code
EI1012


Design and Sustainability
This module aims to develop your knowledge and skills in Engineering Design. You'll develop skills in design methodology, computer aided design, technical drawing and sustainable design.


Module code
ER1003


Engineering Analysis
This module enables you to recognise and use essential core mathematical methods and computational analysis to support further study of engineering and technology.


Module code
ER1004


Engineering Practice
This module imparts knowledge of computer-aided design, programming, digital electronics, and manufacturing techniques. It readies you for diverse engineering tasks involving system design, manufacturing, and testing in various disciplines.


Module code
ER1005


Engineering Science & Analysis
This module introduces core principles of thermal and fluid engineering. You'll also learn problem-solving techniques and essential engineering practices, including relevant measurement methods. 


Module code
ER1210


Aerospace Design and Manufacturing
On this module you'll be introduced to fixed-wing aircraft design and optimisation using Systems Engineering principles. You'll practically analyse the basics of aircraft aerodynamics, structures, propulsion, and control to design and manufacture a fully integrated UAV.


Module code
EI2007


Space Systems
This module provides a technical overview of spacecraft flight and subsystems. You'll develop analytical and simulation techniques and skills for spacecraft mission planning.


Module code
EI2008


Vehicle Aerodynamics & Structures
You'll get a better understanding of fluid mechanics, emphasising high-speed compressible flow theory and its application to aircraft problems. You'll also apply stress analysis on aircraft components, and gain an appreciation for the interaction between aerodynamic loads and structural deformations.


Module code
EI2009


Pilot Operations PPL
On this module you'll be introduced to the principle facts regarding aviation theory for Pilot training. You'll apply a range of methods for Technical and Navigation subjects and develop practical skills in Flight Planning, Performance and Weather Forecasting.


Module code
EI2030


Thermo-fluids
This module will introduce you to the principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics in the context of aerodynamics and heat engines and motor sports engineering. It will develop your problem solving, mathematical modelling and computational modelling skills.


Module code
MP2576


Operations Management A
In this module you will develop the skills and knowledge that is needed to be able to participate in an operations management team.


Module code
MP2721
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Computer Aided Design and Simulation
On this module you'll further your knowledge of Computer Aided Design and Computer Aided Simulation as used in the engineering industry.


Module code
MP2715


Further Engineering Mathematics and Simulation
This module aims to further develop your analytical knowledge and techniques necessary to analyse and solve a variety of engineering situations and problems.


Module code
SC2153


Aerospace Advanced Material & Structural Analysis
This module looks at structural analysis, emphasising static stress analysis for elastic continua, including two-dimensional structures. You'll learn finite element methods for computational analysis using ANSYS/Comsol, aiming to understand key concepts in advanced fibre-reinforced composite structure design.


Module code
EI3011


Flight Dynamics and Control
This module covers aircraft flight dynamics, stability, and control systems. It emphasises the importance of stability analysis and the inclusion of Stability Augmentation Systems (SAS) for improved control loop performance.


Module code
EI3012


Aerospace Propulsion
Our module aims to explore contemporary trends in technological developments. You will be provided a technical overview of main engine types and applications. You will also study scientific frameworks and research methods around calculating engine performance.


Module code
EI3040


Engineering Project with Sustainability
This module involves planning, executing, and reporting on an engineering project. The project includes investigation, analysis, design, evaluation, testing, and manufacturing, based on current research or development.


Module code
MP3000


Computational Fluid Dynamics
In this module, you will understand the complete process required to develop and compute a solution to a problem in fluid dynamics. You will perform a numerical CFD simulation of a simple flow of engineering interest.


Module code
MP3200


Aerospace Group Project
You'll design, develop and demonstrate an integrated aerospace product comprising structure and systems, with due regard to business, commercial and environmental considerations. You'll participate in collaborative activities leading to initial concepts, down-selection, product mechanisation and flight clearance, including quality audits, risk management and safety cases. And you'll apply relevant analytical methods, including modelling and simulation. During the project you'll be expected to demonstrate your proficiency in the relevant mathematics, science and technologies, as well as your skills in management, communication, team performance and personal responsibility.


Module code
EI4000


Pilot Operations ATPL
This module is designed to present a critical review of pilot studies needed for the theoretical examination subjects of the UK/EASA CAA Airline Transport Pilots Licence (ATPL). It aims to help you prepare for the ATPL exams.


Module code
EI4001


Engineer in Society
You will gain experience in the processes of maintaining product integrity within engineering design and the product cycle. You'll look at the responsibilities of the engineer to both the enterprise and society by looking at both national and international standards. You will also analyse and evaluate several risks and ethical and legal responsibilities.


Module code
MP4580
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Aerospace Vehicle Simulation
On this module, you'll integrate computational models of aerospace vehicles and systems to create and enhance flight simulators. This is for the purposes of virtual testing and evaluation. 


Module code
EI4010


Aircraft Flight Physics
You'll investigate how the principles of high-speed aerodynamics influences the flight dynamics of flexible aircraft during different phases of flight. 


Module code
EI4030


Aerospace Structures and Materials
On this module you'll investigate material selection, structural assembly and the associated challenges of material degradation. You'll assess how they impact aerospace vehicle’s structures. 


Module code
EI4035
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
View the course facilities
During your studies you'll benefit from significant investment in the latest high quality facilities available, including state-of-the-art software tools, flight simulators and a UAV Lab.


You’ll take to the skies in our immersive flight simulators, including the Redbird FMX, which will help reinforce your understanding of flight dynamics.
Future Careers
Studying Aerospace Engineering with Pilot Studies leads to careers in the aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy and manufacturing sectors.


Read less
The MEng option is ideal if you aspire to become a commercial pilot. It introduces Airline Transport Pilot License (ATPL) theoretical studies in Year 4. These are university examinations designed to prepare you for sitting CAA ATPL examinations after you’ve graduated.


You’ll be able to make use of our simulation facilities to further develop your flying skills, and practical flying can be arranged at additional cost with our flight training school partners. This is a great way to gain the theoretical training required to obtain a pilot’s license while simultaneously gaining an engineering degree.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 104 points at A2 including Maths and Physics or STEM at grade C
BTEC Extended Diploma: DMM in Engineering including Maths units. Please see UCAS for specific unit requirements
Pass Access Course: 104 points including 15 level 3 credits in Maths and Physics or STEM at Merit
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass with 104 points from Higher Level subjects including Higher Level 6 in Maths and Physics or STEM
T Level: M including Maths and Physics. Please see UCAS for a list of the T Levels we can accept
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Not got the grades?
Our Foundation Entry programme could be exactly what you're looking for. It provides an alternative route to study for this degree.


Find out moreabout foundation entry programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Sandwich year
£1,500 for the sandwich year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Animation (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
3C58
DELIVERY
In Person
Looking to capture imaginations? You’ll be in the studio creating from day one on our Animation Foundation Entry Degree course. Developing the practical skills and technical expertise needed to create your own film.


Read lessabout the Animation (Foundation Entry) course
Our Foundation Entry courses are ideal if you have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the right grades for direct entry.


On this course you’ll create animated characters as well as narratives. Learning to not only capture imaginations but have an awareness of social and cultural influences on animation. This distinctive course is rooted in creative thinking and self-expression. Accompanied by a good technical knowledge of current industry practices, including; script writing, character design, storyboarding, animating, editing and sound design.


Take part in the University’s annual Games Design and Animation Virtual Degree Show. You'll showcase your talents in the final year through Degree Show projects.


Why study with us
2nd
in the North West for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Art and Design)
2023/24
3rd
in the UK for career prospects
Guardian University Guide (Animation and Games Design)
2024
Graduates have gone to lead successful careers in the industry. Working for places like MacKinnon and Saunders, Factory, TT Games, Sony Pictures and Nintendo.
We are one of four institutions in the country with a tailor-made animation programme. Our course features the latest animation software.
Gain real-world experience through commissions from Preston City Council.
What you'll do
Develop your creative skillset using CelAction. A new animation software from Peppa Pig’s creators, Mark Baker and Neville Astley. We’re the first University to have 40 licenses.
Showcase your ideas, enthusiasm, skills and talent at our cJAM careers event. Industry professionals attend and the event closes with placements awarded to successful students.
Gain employability skills by working on client briefs for the NHS. Learn how to work with clients and overcome hurdles met by professional animators. 
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




FDE Introduction to Specialisms
You’ll be introduced to the variety of ways in which creative practitioners have shaped society and the way in which society influences creative practice. We’ll help you acquire foundational skills appropriate to a range of specialist areas and introduce you to the wide range of choices in Arts and Media by presenting you with the challenges of problem-solving through creative practice which includes the development of ideas and a broad range of experimental and exploratory work.


Module code
AZC017


FDE Specialisms
This module will help you to understand the fundamental skill relevant to your chosen specialism, as well as develop and practice technical skills in the use of a range of media. You'll also learn the critical concepts related to contemporary practice in your chosen specialism and a broad understanding of work in a specialism area, to prepare you for progression to level 4 study.


Module code
AZC018


Contextual Studies in Animation
This module aims to provide you with a conceptual understanding of animation in films and study film theory. Explore the historical development of animation practise and the design profession. You'll be introduced to a broad range of cognitive (research, analysis/synthesis and evaluation) skills. 


Module code
AX1000


Introduction to Animation
Encouraging you to research and develop animation projects. You'll be encouraged to use the "design process" by recording and analysing different animations. Plus, you will develop the basic conceptual and practical skills necessary for animation, e.g. form, movement and expression.


Module code
AX1001


Introduction to Model Making
This module will introduce you to the preparation and creation of basic stop-frame puppetry. You'll also learn to recognise the importance of safety procedures within a workshop environment.


Module code
AX1021


Skill Development & Software Training
This module encourages the use of drawing and the “design process” in general by observing, recording, analysis and organisation of visual information. It will enable you to follow a design process from visual research through to an appropriate conclusion. You will explore a variety of techniques in order to formulate, express and develop ideas and concepts in solving production problems.


Module code
AX1101
Focus Studies
Explore Animation through self-initiated or market-oriented project work and further develop your creative design skills through an exploratory approach to Animation, Film making or associated work. This module will test the practical application of ideas through practice-based research.


Module code
AX2000


Animation Practice
Build on the learning outcomes of the Introduction to Animation and Skill Practise module and develop the specialist study with the knowledge that specifically relates to creative 2D or 3D Animation. You'll understand and discuss the theory behind filmmaking and storytelling as well as analysis film text using a variety of methodologies.


Module code
AX2021


Animation Production and VFX
This module will develop your creative design skills through a personalised approach to formal animation, VFX and film making techniques and processes. It'll enable you to develop production techniques and progress the application of ideas from the initial concept through to the finished output.


Module code
AX2022


Advanced Model Making
This module aims to further develop puppetry skills and develop sculpting techniques to help understand shape and form. You'll learn about 3D space by developing an environment suitable for animation in various forms like stop motion, 3D digital and VFX in film.


Module code
AX2023


Research and Preproduction
This module aims to convey knowledge and practise from levels 4 and 5 and apply them to a standard that is of industry’s expectations. Help you understand, apply and expand cultural awareness. Foster self-critical awareness, personal motivation, initiative and self-reliance. Understand and apply research activities, based upon future design and innovative production methodologies and contexts.


Module code
AX3021


Honours Project and Promotion
During this module, you'll consolidate a distinctive, innovative and personal approach to areas of interest like model making, animation, creative storytelling and film making. You'll develop knowledge and skills necessary for contemporary animation practice, for example the understanding of clients, markets, users, consumers, business and finance. 


Module code
AX3022


Animated TV Series
Consolidate your understanding of and apply cultural awareness. Foster self-critical awareness, personal motivation, initiative and self-reliance. Understand the process of creating an animated series for TV, streaming platform and the web. And undertake research activates based upon future design and innovative production methodologies and contexts.


Module code
AX3333
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Animation
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
WW27
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entry
Our award-winning Animation degree course covers stop motion, 2D animation and 3D digital animation. These techniques will help you develop the practical skills and technical expertise you need to create your own film by the end of the course.


Read lessabout the Animation course
Our animation course encourages creative thinking and self-expression. Accompanied by a good technical knowledge of current industry practices. You'll learn skills in scriptwriting, character design, storyboarding, animating and VFX. As well as compositing, editing and sound design.


Our lecturers are practising professionals and you'll have access to fantastic animation facilities. Catering for CGI, stop frame, 2D, illustrative, set building and model-making. As well as sound recording, editing and sound design. All supported with the latest animation software, including Toon Boom and Dragonframe.


Why study with us
2nd
in the North West for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Art and Design)
2023/24
3rd
in the UK for career prospects
Guardian University Guide (Animation and Games Design)
2024
Each year, the Royal Television Society (RTS) organises a series of regional student awards which you will be able to enter. In addition, students will be encouraged to enter festivals like Annecy Animation Festival and Manchester Animation Festival.
Our Animation students have been North West Royal Television Society Student Award winners nine times.
We are one of only a few institutions in the country to provide Toon Boom training. Delivered by an accredited Toon Boom user.


What you’ll do
Gain employability skills by working on client briefs for organisations such as the NHS and Preston City Council. Learn how to work with clients and overcome hurdles met by professional animators. 
You'll be encouraged to enter the annual Royal Television Society (RTS) student awards. As well as festivals such as Annecy Animation Festival and Manchester Animation Festival.
Our close links with employers will give you the chance to work on 'live' projects from the industry. Helping you to test your skills and become graduate work-ready.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Contextual Studies in Animation
This module aims to provide you with a conceptual understanding of animation in films and study film theory. Explore the historical development of animation practise and the design profession. You'll be introduced to a broad range of cognitive (research, analysis/synthesis and evaluation) skills. 


Module code
AX1000


Introduction to Animation
Encouraging you to research and develop animation projects. You'll be encouraged to use the "design process" by recording and analysing different animations. Plus, you will develop the basic conceptual and practical skills necessary for animation, e.g. form, movement and expression.


Module code
AX1001


Introduction to Model Making
This module will introduce you to the preparation and creation of basic stop-frame puppetry. You'll also learn to recognise the importance of safety procedures within a workshop environment.


Module code
AX1021


Skill Development & Software Training
This module encourages the use of drawing and the “design process” in general by observing, recording, analysis and organisation of visual information. It will enable you to follow a design process from visual research through to an appropriate conclusion. You will explore a variety of techniques in order to formulate, express and develop ideas and concepts in solving production problems.


Module code
AX1101


Focus Studies
Explore Animation through self-initiated or market-oriented project work and further develop your creative design skills through an exploratory approach to Animation, Film making or associated work. This module will test the practical application of ideas through practice-based research.


Module code
AX2000


Animation Practice
Build on the learning outcomes of the Introduction to Animation and Skill Practise module and develop the specialist study with the knowledge that specifically relates to creative 2D or 3D Animation. You'll understand and discuss the theory behind filmmaking and storytelling as well as analysis film text using a variety of methodologies.


Module code
AX2021


Animation Production and VFX
This module will develop your creative design skills through a personalised approach to formal animation, VFX and film making techniques and processes. It'll enable you to develop production techniques and progress the application of ideas from the initial concept through to the finished output.


Module code
AX2022


Advanced Model Making
This module aims to further develop puppetry skills and develop sculpting techniques to help understand shape and form. You'll learn about 3D space by developing an environment suitable for animation in various forms like stop motion, 3D digital and VFX in film.


Module code
AX2023
Research and Preproduction
This module aims to convey knowledge and practise from levels 4 and 5 and apply them to a standard that is of industry’s expectations. Help you understand, apply and expand cultural awareness. Foster self-critical awareness, personal motivation, initiative and self-reliance. Understand and apply research activities, based upon future design and innovative production methodologies and contexts.


Module code
AX3021


Honours Project and Promotion
During this module, you'll consolidate a distinctive, innovative and personal approach to areas of interest like model making, animation, creative storytelling and film making. You'll develop knowledge and skills necessary for contemporary animation practice, for example the understanding of clients, markets, users, consumers, business and finance. 


Module code
AX3022


Animated TV Series
Consolidate your understanding of and apply cultural awareness. Foster self-critical awareness, personal motivation, initiative and self-reliance. Understand the process of creating an animated series for TV, streaming platform and the web. And undertake research activates based upon future design and innovative production methodologies and contexts.


Module code
AX3333
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers in digital animation
Animation is a flourishing industry due to recent government support. And thanks to the University’s proximity to MediaCityUK, there’s no better place to study animation. 


Read less
Our graduates enjoy careers as animators, model-makers, editors, directors, scriptwriters, set designers, and sound designers. They've gone on to work at companies such as Nintendo, The Factory, McKinnon and Saunders, Sony Pictures, TT Games, Soccer Manager, the BBC and many others.


Graduate Charlotte Blacker won the RTS award for the best undergraduate film in the country. She has since worked for Loose Moose and now is teaching our course at Hebei University, China. Her graduation film The Little Red Plane has been shown at various film festivals, including The Children’s Festival in New York. She is much in demand in the USA for series work and short animated films.


Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 96 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MMM
BTEC Diploma: DD
Pass Access Course: 96 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 96 points from Higher Level subjects
T Level: P (C+)
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Applicants are required to submit a portfolio for consideration - you will be sent an email by our Admissions Office advising how this should be provided.
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Not got the grades?
Our Foundation Entry programme could be exactly what you're looking for. It provides an alternative route to study for this degree.


Find out moreabout foundation entry programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Youth Work & Community Practice
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Burnley Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
L530
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entry
This professionally validated course will leave you a qualified, experienced and employable youth and community worker.


Read lessabout the Youth Work & Community Practice course
Our Youth Work and Community Practice course is exciting and innovative. It is professionally validated by the National Youth Agency, which means it leads to Joint Negotiating Committee (JNC) recognition.


When you successfully complete the course, you will become a JNC-qualified Professional Youth Work and Community Practice Practitioner.


In addition to the JNC professional qualification, we offer the opportunity to gain additional qualifications throughout the course. These may include the following:


First aid at work
Sports coaching qualifications
Mentoring
Counselling skills
Child sexual exploitation
Our students take part in a residential as part of the course at Coldwell activity centre in the Pennines to experience a fun, bonding, and a learning experience.


Our professional practice placement modules which is offered throughout the three years of study, will give you the opportunity to work with young people in a range of settings including schools, youth centres, outdoors or on a one-to-one basis.


We also work closely with the team from the Centre for Volunteering and Community Leadership (CVCL) who offer placements and opportunities in over 300 voluntary sector organisations.


You will have the opportunity to study modules relating to young people in sport, or young people’s mental health in addition to core modules in Youth Work and Community Practice, making it a relevant and modern course.


The course is also directly linked to the Journal of Community Research, which means you will have the opportunity to submit a research paper to this peer reviewed journal.


Why study with us
Joint
1st
in the UK for graduate prospects (on track)
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
2nd
in the North West for research quality
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
2nd
in the North West for career prospects
Guardian University Guide (Social work)
2024
On completion of this degree, you’ll be a fully qualified youth worker with a nationally recognised professional qualification.
This course has been carefully developed by youth work employers and professionals to ensure students are fully prepared for youth work employment after graduation.
Our excellent industry links will give you placement opportunities that will support your career aspirations.
What you'll do
You'll be taught by an experienced team with backgrounds in youth work or community practice. They cover expertise in youth work, justice, mentoring, mental health, and more.
In addition to your degree, you will also receive a CPD award in safeguarding, a CPD award in writing risk assessments, a first aid at work qualification and will have the opportunity to complete an ILM in Mentoring.
You'll learn in a highly practical environment with useful assessments. You'll take part in placements in youth work or community practice, with assessments that will impact their organisational policy and practice.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Assessed Professional Practice in Youth Work – 1
This module involves the completion of 200 hours in a practice setting. You'll explore the relationship between youth work theory and practice whilst engaging in professional youth work practice. You'll also demonstrate relevant National Occupational Standards.


Module code
SW1008


Policy, Practice and Legislation
This module is designed to help prepare you for professional practice, with a focus on health and safety, child protection and equality and diversity.


Module code
VO1018


Safeguarding & Child Protection
You will gain an understanding of the legislation and policies around safeguarding and child protection and how this understanding translates to practical behaviours and actions.


Module code
SW1002


Communication in Practice
This module introduces you to issues surrounding communication in youth work, education and care contexts and the importance of effective communication in ensuring good practice and outcomes for young people.


Module code
SW1803


Youth Dialogue
You will be introduced to the dialogue used by, about and with young people. It considers theory and research about young people, their relationships with each other, others, and between young people and society.


Module code
SW1003


Exploring Modern Youth Work
This module considers how current youth work has evolved and changed and how youth work interacts with other agencies and organisations. You will also access training and accreditations relating to current roles in youth work from external agencies and other departments within the University.


Module code
SW1007
Assessed Professional Practice in Youth Work - 2
This second professional practice placement module allows you to continue to develop your youth work skills. It involves the completion of 300 hours in a practice setting where you will explore the relationship between youth work theory and practise whilst engaging in professional youth work practice. You'll also demonstrate relevant National Occupational Standards.


Module code
SW2008


Contemporary Issues for Young People
This module aims to introduce you to contemporary issues affecting young people today. Political, educational, and social issues are examined with a view to develop a better understanding of the world for young people.


Module code
SW2001


Theory and Practice of Youth Work
This module explores primary theories and policies in youth work and community practice and gives you the theoretical basis through which to explore practical issues about your own work.


Module code
SW2004


Psychology of Youth & Community
This module aims to give you a psychological perspective on youth and community. It examines different psychological models and theories of behaviour for events that occur in the community. It also develops your knowledge of the psychological development of individuals and groups and its practical implications when engaging in work with young people and communities.


Module code
SW2003
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Youth Development
This module uses the award winning, international Global Youth Solutions project to give you a practical experience in planning, delivery and evaluation of a peer leadership skills through a peer education project.


Module code
VO2005


Researching with Children and Young People
This module examines research with children and young people by studying a number of key research studies. You will gain insights into the research process and build your competence and confidence within yourself as a researcher.


Module code
CI2501
Assessed Professional Practice in Youth Work – 3
This module aims to help you to continue to develop your youth work skills, including leadership and management skills. It involves the completion of 300 hours in a practice setting, allowing you to work as a senior youth worker, supervising other youth workers, allocating resources, evaluating work, as well as demonstrating relevant National Occupational Standards.


Module code
SW3022


Dissertation
This module provides an opportunity for you to undertake independent study in an area of your choice. It will involve a particular issue of relevance to children and young people’s lives and services. You will be guided and supported by your dissertation supervisor to plan, carry out the project and write it up as an academic research.


Module code
CI3669


Management in Youth Work and Community Practice
The module aims to prepare you for some of the situations you may experience when working in management in youth work and community practice. You will consider theories of management, how to put them into practice, the challenges to management in a youth work setting and the importance of supervision and staff development.


Module code
SW3007


Equality, Diversity and Anti-Oppressive Practice
This module joins all previous academic learning and explores theory around anti-oppressive practice. It aims to continue to build your understanding of common themes of prejudice, equality, diversity and oppression, particularly around gender, ethnicity, age, sexuality, class and disability.


Module code
SW3009
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers in youth work and community practice
After completing this course, you will be able to move directly into a wide range of careers including, but not limited to:


Read less
Youth work
Teaching assistant
Teaching (with the addition of a PGCE)
Community activism
Local charity work
Housing association work
Working with young offenders
Social care
Social work (with additional qualifications)
Sports coaching
Sports development
Learning support
Community policing
Our Careers Service will support you throughout your programme of study. You'll receive extra support in your final year and be offered more intensive one-to-one appointments to consider your future.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 96-112 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MMM-DMM
BTEC Diploma: DD-D*D*
Pass Access Course 96-112 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 96-112 points from Higher Level Subjects
T Level: P (C+) - M
IELTS: 6.0 with no Component lower than 5.5
GCSE's: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
A satisfactory Criminal records declaration (DBS/Disclosure Scotland) is required for this course
This course will involve you working with vulnerable groups of individuals, this may include children. In order to ensure that the University offers places on their programmes to suitable candidates you will be required to obtain a satisfactory Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service clearance (formerly termed CRB).


Read less
We will be able to guide you through this process once you have been offered a conditional place of study at the University of Central Lancashire.


It is important to note that should your Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check prove to be unsatisfactory for the purpose of the course you have applied to, your offer of a place for that course may be withdrawn. If you have already enrolled on a course and your DBS check subsequently discloses a criminal conviction, you may be required to withdraw from the course even if you have already started. If you are aware that your DBS check will disclose a previous conviction, please contact the course leader for advice as not all convictions may preclude you from continuing with the course.


Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Not got the grades?
Our Foundation Entry programme could be exactly what you're looking for. It provides an alternative route to study for this degree.


Find out moreabout foundation entry programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Youth Work & Community Practice (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Burnley Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
L501
DELIVERY
In Person
This Youth Work & Community Practice degree is a professionally validated foundation entry course to help you become a qualified, experienced, and employable youth and community worker.


Read lessabout the Youth Work & Community Practice (Foundation Entry) course
The Youth Work & Community Practice course is a new, exciting, innovative development taught via block learning, with placement opportunities available throughout the course.


The course is delivered via block learning, making it flexible and achievable for someone working in the field.


You will have the opportunity to study modules relating to young people in sport, or young people’s mental health, in addition to core modules in youth work and community practice making it a relevant and modern course.


The course has been developed closely with the team from CVCL, offering placements and opportunities in over 300 voluntary sector organisations and benefiting from the expertise of a team that has working with the voluntary sector for over twenty years.


In addition to the JNC Professional Qualification, you can gain a range of other awards through the course. These may include the following –


First aid at work
Writing risk assessments
Safeguarding
Sports coaching qualifications
Mentoring
Counselling skills
The course is also directly linked to the Journal of Community Research, you will have the opportunity to submit a research paper to this peer reviewed journal.


Why study with us
Joint
1st
in the UK for graduate prospects (on track)
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
2nd
in the North West for research quality
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
2nd
in the North West for career prospects
Guardian University Guide (Social work)
2024
On completion of this degree, you’ll be a fully qualified youth worker with a nationally recognised professional qualification.
This course has been carefully developed by youth work employers and professionals to ensure students are fully prepared for youth work employment after graduation.
Our excellent industry links will give you placement opportunities that will support your career aspirations.
What you'll do
You’ll be taught by an experienced course team that have come from Youth Work or Community Practice backgrounds and have experience in youth work, youth justice, child sexual exploitation, international community work, leadership, action research, mentoring, homelessness, environmentalism, mental health and sports development.
You’ll be taught in a learning environment that will be very practical, with assessments created to be as practical and useful as possible. You will undertake placements in Youth Work or Community Practice throughout the course and will be expected to complete assessments which will affect policy and practice in those organisations.
In addition to your degree, you will also receive a CPD award in safeguarding, a CPD award in writing risk assessments, a first aid at work qualification and will have the opportunity to complete an ILM in Mentoring, which will ensure you leave university as a highly employable graduate ready for a career in youth work.
Essential Study Skills for Higher Education
This module provides you with a foundation in study skills by guiding you through the skills required to produce high quality academic work. Topics covered in the module include academic writing, referencing and critical analysis.


Module code
HUC110


Developing Academic Knowledge
This interesting module will introduce you to critical thinking and discussion, and essential skills for success at university. A range of world issues and current affairs within broadly defined areas such as, political systems, environmentalism, law and justice, and culture and society, will be explored.


Module code
HUC111


Target Award Extended Study
This module aims to develop your digital literacies. You'll have opportunities to focus on a topic within your intended honours degree (target award) Course. You will learn appropriate digital research skills, learn which digital tools and methods are suitable for your target award, and develop independent learning skills.


Module code
HUC114


Learning by Experience
In this module you will explore group working, negotiating and task-based learning while building a reflective learning portfolio. You will choose a project to research, present your findings and exhibit your work as well as reflecting on your learning.


Module code
HUC115


Volunteering and Safety Management
During the course of the module, you'll learn about the following topics and put them into a practical context. Health and safety in the workplace, child protection, the ethics of volunteering, disability awareness first aid training, race, ethnicity, and discrimination, dealing with difficult situations effectively.


Module code
VOC102


Volunteering and Community Action
This module will provide you with the practical experience of volunteering. This includes planning and arranging your placement as well as considering the ethics of volunteering. You will be expected to reflect on your practical volunteering experience.


Module code
VOC106
Placement Year 1 - Youth Work
You will complete a minimum of 200 hours placement, working as a youth worker. You will be supervised to work with young people both one-to-one and in groups and support them to engage in activities.


Module code
SW1001


Policy, Practice and Legislation
This module is designed to help prepare you for professional practice, with a focus on health and safety, child protection and equality and diversity.


Module code
VO1018


Safeguarding & Child Protection
You will gain an understanding of the legislation and policies around safeguarding and child protection and how this understanding translates to practical behaviours and actions.


Module code
SW1002


Communication in Practice
This module introduces you to issues surrounding communication in youth work, education and care contexts and the importance of effective communication in ensuring good practice and outcomes for young people.


Module code
SW1803


Youth Dialogue
You will be introduced to the dialogue used by, about and with young people. It considers theory and research about young people, their relationships with each other, others, and between young people and society.


Module code
SW1003


Exploring Modern Youth Work
This module considers how current youth work has evolved and changed and how youth work interacts with other agencies and organisations. You will also access training and accreditations relating to current roles in youth work from external agencies and other departments within the University.


Module code
SW1007
Placement Year 2 - Youth Work
In this second placement module, you will complete a minimum of 300 hours working as a professional youth worker. Exhibiting clear anti-oppressive practice, you will work with young people to plan activities and examine rights and responsibilities through informal education.      


Module code
SW2002


Contemporary Issues for Young People
This module aims to introduce you to contemporary issues affecting young people today. Political, educational, and social issues are examined with a view to develop a better understanding of the world for young people.


Module code
SW2001


Theory and Practice of Youth Work
This module explores primary theories and policies in youth work and community practice and gives you the theoretical basis through which to explore practical issues about your own work.


Module code
SW2004


Psychology of Youth & Community
This module aims to give you a psychological perspective on youth and community. It examines different psychological models and theories of behaviour for events that occur in the community. It also develops your knowledge of the psychological development of individuals and groups and its practical implications when engaging in work with young people and communities.


Module code
SW2003
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Youth Development
This module uses the award winning, international Global Youth Solutions project to give you a practical experience in planning, delivery and evaluation of a peer leadership skills through a peer education project.


Module code
VO2005


School and Community Sports Development
This sports development module gives you the opportunity to examine the logistics and impact of sports projects in schools and communities and the theory behind why sport is used as a tool to work with young people and communities.


Module code
TL2098


Perspectives on Mental Health
This module is taught by tutors from out mental health team and teaches you about different perspectives on mental health including how society treats young people who have concerns about their mental health.


Module code
CG2002
Placement Year 3 - Youth Work
In this final compulsory placement module, you will complete a minimum of 300 hours placement working as a professional youth worker, supervising other youth workers, allocating resources, evaluating work and demonstrating anti-oppressive practice.     


Module code
SW3019


Dissertation
This module provides an opportunity for you to undertake independent study in an area of your choice. It will involve a particular issue of relevance to children and young people’s lives and services. You will be guided and supported by your dissertation supervisor to plan, carry out the project and write it up as an academic research.


Module code
CI3669


Management in Youth Work and Community Practice
The module aims to prepare you for some of the situations you may experience when working in management in youth work and community practice. You will consider theories of management, how to put them into practice, the challenges to management in a youth work setting and the importance of supervision and staff development.


Module code
SW3007


Equality, Diversity and Anti-Oppressive Practice
This module joins all previous academic learning and explores theory around anti-oppressive practice. It aims to continue to build your understanding of common themes of prejudice, equality, diversity and oppression, particularly around gender, ethnicity, age, sexuality, class and disability.


Module code
SW3009
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future Careers
After completing this course, students will be able to move directly into a wide range of careers including, but not limited to, youth work, teaching assistant, teaching (with the addition of a PGCE), community activism, local charity work, housing association work, working with young offenders, social care, social work (with additional qualifications), sports coaching, sports development, learning support and community policing.


Read less
Students will be supported throughout their programme of study by the University of Central Lancashire careers service but especially in their final year where they will be offered more intensive one-to-one appointments to consider their future.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 64 points at A2 or flexibility for work experience
BTEC Extended Diploma: MPP
BTEC Diploma: MM
Pass Access Course: 64 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 64 points from Higher Level Subjects
T Level: P (D or E)
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Veterinary Medicine & Surgery
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
DURATION
5 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
D100
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entry
Our exciting Bachelor Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (BVMS) degree has been developed to meet RCVS requirements. The BVMS course prepares you for a variety of veterinary careers.


Read lessabout the Veterinary Medicine & Surgery course
This is a collaborative and professional programme focused on training you to become a veterinary surgeon. During the course, you'll gain the skills to prevent and treat animal health and welfare problems.


Veterinary medicine is a multi-disciplinary subject incorporating:


Science
Clinical skills
Animal behaviour and welfare
Disease management and epidemiology
Human-animal relationships
Applications for September 2024 entry are now closed for UK students. Applications for September 2025 will open later this year.


Why study with us
Experience an immersive and practically-focused curriculum with clinical placements from Year 1. You'll be supported with a dedicated student well-being programme.
We offer contextual admissions. This is a reduced entry tariff for those who's life experience may have resulted in academic challenges.
Our new way of teaching uses digital technologies to deliver innovative face-to-face teaching. This means we don’t rely on traditional lectures.
What you'll do
You’ll focus on developing practical and professional veterinary skills.
You'll learn how to deal with ethical dilemmas. Applying your analytical and reasoning skills to a variety of real-life problems.
You’ll develop patient-centred clinical skills and communicate with colleagues and clients. Whilst learning how to improve the welfare of animals under your care.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Veterinary Core 1
This module will provide you with a holistic understanding of how animals function and interact with the wider environment. You will consider the relationship between humans and animals, and develop a professional ethic


Module code
VM1038
Veterinary Core 2
This module will build on your knowledge of how animals function and interact with the wider world. You will learn practical skills in handling animals, including clinical examination and medicine administration. You will learn about this alongside a One Health approach towards animal-related social issues.


Module code
VM2014
BVMS Year 3: Veterinary clinical integration
This module advances prior knowledge by enhancing clinical communication, honing patient history-taking, diagnostic reasoning, and clinical skills using various models. It broadens your understanding of pathology and clinical applications, assesses evidence-based veterinary medicine, and explores the One Health perspective and biostatistics. Additionally, it covers research methodologies and critical analysis.


Module code
VM3015
Veterinary Clinical Consolidation
Develop a deep knowledge of the application of prior modules in the clinical context. This includes a range of pathological presentations and associated diseases across domestic and exotic species. Develop a range of practical and clinical skills and the supporting professional practices.


Module code
VM3012
Veterinary Clinical Application
Prepare for your first day as a new graduate vet. This module brings together all your previous learning from the earlier years of the course. You'll learn in a practical real-life clinical environment. You'll also get exposed to on-the-job practical training & assessment across all common species. Meet the criteria described in the RVCS Day 1 Competencies following completion of the module. Expand your understanding and skills in specific clinical and non-clinical areas through the elective study.


Module code
VM4001
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Our facilities plan
We're building a set of state-of-the-art set facilities for our veterinary medicine courses.


Read less
Phase 1 - Adelphi Building Clinical Skills Suite
Animal dental models
Breed’n Betsy
Equine intubation model
Microscopes
Ovine and canine venepuncture models (blood sampling models)
Virtual dissection (Anatomage) tables
Discover our Vet Clinical Skills Suite.


Phase 2 - Greenbank Veterinary Clinical Skills and Simulation Hub
Anaesthesia and surgery simulation theatre (mock theatre)
Clinical skills teaching rooms
Consultation rooms
Dental suite
Diagnostic imaging suite
Physiotherapy suite including hydrotherapy suite
Phase 3 - Veterinary Medicine Teaching Building
Clinical anatomy and dissection suite
Digital immersive simulation suite
Microscopy and histology lab
Social space
Team-based learning teaching spaces
Virtual anatomy suite
BVMS facilities
You’ll have access to a wide range of animal handling, husbandry and clinical facilities. We work in partnership with Myerscough College & University Centre as well as local and regional organisations. We're one of the first UK universities to use Anatomage tables in our veterinary medicine teaching.
Future career as a veterinary surgeon
Graduates of the BVMS course will be able to work as UK registered veterinary surgeons. Subject to successful licensing by the RCVS.


The veterinary medicine and surgery degree will also prepare you for a range of science and research careers. As well as the opportunity for further academic study.


Read less
This is a field with excellent career prospects. Over 99% of veterinary graduates enter employment or further academic study according to higher education graduate outcomes statistics (HESA).


Our competency-based programmes aim to ease your transition into the working world. We'll ensure you're ready with the skills and knowledge to succeed in a range of veterinary clinical and science-based careers.


Entry requirements
Applications must be made by the October UCAS deadline.
GCSE requirements


Maths and English at grade 4/C
A level


AAB (two science subjects, plus one other) or;
ABB (three science subjects or two science subjects and Maths) at A2.
Acceptable science subjects are shown in the table below. Subjects must be from different columns e.g. Biology, Economics and Environmental Science, or Physical Education, Physics and Psychology. NOT Biology, Physical Education and Physics, as two of these subjects sit in the same column:
Equivalents


We accept all corresponding equivalents including BTECs, Access Courses etc. for example:


Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma (1080 glh): D*D*D*
Pass Diploma at D*D*D* in Animal Management with at least a Distinction in the following units:


Animal Biology
Animal Health and Diseases
Animal Breeding and Genetics
Pass Diploma at D*D*D* in Applied Science with at least four from the following optional units:


Physiology of Human Body Systems
Human Regulation and Reproduction
Biological Molecules and Metabolic Pathways
Genetics and Genetic Engineering
Diseases and Infections
Applications of Inorganic Chemistry
Applications of Organic Chemistry


BTEC Subsidiary Diploma: D*. If taken in lieu of a 3rd A Level, you will still require two science A Levels at Grade A.
IELTS 7
All applications are subject to review in line with RCVS fitness to practice requirements.


Contextual admissions


Contextual admissions takes account of additional information about an applicant’s background that might have impacted their education and adjusts the entry criteria for that applicant.


View our contextual admissions policy.
Health screening
All offers of a place on this course are subject to satisfactory health screening. It is important to note that should your health screening not be satisfactory your offer of a place on this course may be withdrawn.


If you have already enrolled on the course prior to completion of your health screening, or if your health screening clearance is revoked or changes during the course, you may be required to withdraw from the course even if you have already started.


If you would like to discuss or seek advice in respect of the health screening requirements for this course, please contact the course enquiries team.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
Full-time
£37,000 per year
Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
DURATION
6 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
D110
DELIVERY
In Person
Would you like to become a vet but don't have a science background? Open up the possibility of an exciting veterinary career with our gateway to veterinary medicine course.


Read lessabout the Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (Foundation Entry) course
The foundation entry to Veterinary Medicine and Surgery will give you the opportunity to progress to our 5 year BVMS and other BSc (Hons) programmes. 


This course is suitable for students from a wide range of backgrounds typically under-represented in veterinary medicine. Modules include science relevant to veterinary medicine, integrated bioveterinary sciences, and animal husbandry. They are delivered to help prepare you to study veterinary medicine.


This gateway course is perfect if you don't have a science background or the usual academic requirements. We offer a reduced entry tariff for those who’s life experiences may have resulted in academic challenges. Visit our contextual admissions page for more information.


Applications for September 2024 entry are now closed for UK students. Applications for September 2025 will open later this year.


Why study with us
A bespoke course preparing you to apply to veterinary school.
Integration of science with animal husbandry and welfare experiences.
Focus on personal development, academic skills and support with application preparation.
What you'll do
You’ll be embedded with the veterinary school with access to our newly developing teaching facilities.
You’ll be taught by the same academic team responsible for veterinary admissions and teaching.
You’ll be supported to develop your full potential regardless of your background.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Applied Animal Husbandry Behaviour and Welfare
This module aims to provide an introduction to the major themes in applied ethology, evolution and domestication, behavioural needs, and animal housing and husbandry systems.


Module code
VM1035


Biological, Chemical and Physical Systems for Veterinary Medicine
This module will introduce you to the major themes in biochemistry, cell and molecular biology. This includes gene regulation and cell signalling, cell cycle and metabolism. It also covers the basics of applied medical physics. 


Module code
VM1037


Experimental design, analysis and research
During this module, you'll study the application of scientific empiricism and be introduced to veterinary medical research. In addition, this module will facilitate your research skills so you can propose how you would undertake your own research project and communicate your findings.


Module code
VMC004


Foundation Body Systems and Biology
This module will provide you with the basic scientific principles required to underpin your studies. It includes basic elements of anatomy, physiology, and basic laboratory-based practicals.


Module code
VMC006
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Our facilities
You’ll have access to a wide range of animal handling, husbandry and clinical facilities. We work in partnership with Myerscough College & University Centre as well as local and regional organisations.
Future career as a veterinary surgeon
This course is designed to prepare you for further study on our 5-year Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine (BVMS). It also offers progression into other science and animal management careers. The course opens the door to apply for a range of health and science-related courses.


Graduates of the BVMS course will be able to work as UK registered veterinary surgeons. Subject to successful licensing by the RCVS.


Read less
This is a field with excellent career prospects. Over 99% of veterinary graduates enter employment or further academic study according to higher education graduate outcomes statistics (HESA).


Our competency-based programmes aim to ease your transition into the working world. We'll ensure you're ready with the skills and knowledge to succeed in a range of veterinary clinical and science-based careers.


The veterinary medicine and surgery degree will also prepare you for a range of science and research careers. As well as the opportunity for further academic study.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


Completing Year 0 of this programme does not guarantee automatic progression to BVMS.


Our Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (BVMS) foundation entry programme offers a great potential entry route to our standard BVMS programme. You'll start at Year 0, where you'll get the chance to develop and demonstrate the necessary subject-specific knowledge and abilities to participate in the progression process.


As the course is highly competitive, to progress onto Year 1 of our BVMS course, you'll need to partake in the standard application process, which requires the following:


Meet the qualifying grade criteria in Year 0
Apply for BVMS Year 1 in your first semester of Year 0
Complete the interview selection event
Receive an offer to join the BVMS 5-year programme
Meet any conditional requirements of the offer
Join the BVMS 5-year programme at the start of the next academic year
For further guidance on this process and to understand how we choose our students following the interview selection process, please view the BVMS application guide. Despite this, widening participation is at the core of our school's mission. We can offer a reduced entry tariff for those whose life experiences may have resulted in academic challenges. See our contextual admissions page for more details.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
BBB at A2
DDM BTEC Extended Diploma
T Level at merit or above in any subject
5 GCSES at grade C/4 or above including Maths and English
IELTS 6.5
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£11,100 per year
International
First year
£25,000 for the first year
Full-time
£37,000 per year
Textile Design
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
WWF7
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entry
The BA (Hons) Textiles Design course has a vibrant hands-on approach. You'll explore a wide range of textile techniques and surface pattern design. With a strong emphasis on experimentation.


Read lessabout the Textile Design course
You'll experiment with techniques such as dye, weave, transfer printing, foiling, stitch and digital design. Interpreting them using unexpected technologies and materials. And you’ll create new designs that are at the forefront of textile design.


Our specialist, technician supported, facilities include; digital embroidery, digital fabric printing, laser cutting, rug tufting, intaglio and screen-printing.


We strongly encourage our students to find their niche. Helping them to develop into individual textile designers, artists and makers. We ensure that you have the skills you need to produce a professional portfolio to launch yourself onto your chosen career path.


Why study with us
2nd
in the North West for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Art and Design)
2023/24
3rd
in the UK for learning opportunities
National Student Survey (Design Studies) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Top
5
in the UK for overall positivity
National Student Survey (Design Studies) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
Our Fashion courses are ranked in the Top 80 of the Best Fashion Schools in the World for 2020 (CEOWORLD Magazine)
We have a British Fashion Council membership. The BFC Colleges Council represents the leading fashion departments in universities and colleges throughout the UK.
Students have been featured artists in Embroidery Magazine, designed for fashion and interiors and showcased their work internationally.
What you'll do
We work with a variety of industry partners on ‘live’ project briefs to develop your professional skills. And for you to gain an understanding of the industry. You’ll get involved in work shadowing and placements during your second year.
You'll be encouraged to enter competitions during the course. Many students have gone on to achieve recognition and success in national design competitions.
You'll have the opportunity to go on research trips in the UK and internationally. These trips are a fundamental part of developing your inspiration for project briefs.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Creative Thinking
This module encourages traditional drawing skills to explore image, form, function, and surface, as well as the development of ideas.


Module code
DD1101


Critical Studies in Fashion and Textiles 1
This module introduces you to the study of Design History in the context of the style and culture at various periods in History, eg examining the role of the Designer in Society, and it's historical, cultural, and geographical considerations as well as gender and race perspectives.


Module code
FQ1001


Textile Innovations 1
You will learn basic techniques and processes to sample and explore a range of textiles. You will gain an understanding of Health and Safety requirements for materials and equipment use. You will also explore creative thinking, innovation, experimentation, product, craft, and design skills, as well as practical skills. The module introduces the history and ethics of textiles.


Module code
TI1001


Drawing for Textiles
This module will develop your skills in drawing practice to support your textile design methodology.


Module code
TI1012
Critical Studies in Fashion and Textiles 2
This module will examine the motivation behind the adornment of the body and why humans have constantly desired to modify their appearance.


Module code
FQ2001


Textile Innovations 2
This module enables you to facilitate the application of creative thinking and design skills to the development of innovative textile products, develop personal identity and direction through live commercial briefs, competitions, live exhibition, gallery work and further visual.


Module code
TI2002


Introduction to Pattern
In this module you will develop your design skills and creative thinking by designing patterns for two and three-dimensional surfaces. You'll also work on your visual, verbal and written communication skills.


Module code
TI2011


Surface Design
On this module you'll explore the manipulation of surfaces, colouring, patterning, structuring and transformation of fabric, fibre and other materials. You'll develop your design skills and creative thinking to facilitate the design of Surface Pattern, further visual, verbal and written communication skills.


Module code
TI2012


Experiencing the Workplace
As well as approximately 50 hours of work experience, in this module you will demonstrate competency in the necessary key skills and critically reflect on your progress through an on-line Personal Reflective Diary. You will apply the theoretical and practical aspects of your study to the work place, therefore giving you the opportunity to fully integrate your academic study with meaningful work experience.


Module code
TI2014
Honours Project
This module is common to all undergraduate courses in the Department of Design. It determines the award of Honours to achieve a named award with the prefix BA(Hons) or BSc(Hons).


Module code
DD3992


Critical Studies in Fashion and Textiles 3
This module will discuss marketing techniques and the presentation of design in a commercial world via a variety of approaches in the study of fashion theories. You will investigate changing patterns of consumption, taste and ideology through stage, film and retail and study the presentation of dress through exhibition and gallery display.


Module code
FQ3001


Textile Innovations 3
This module aims to develop your self-critical awareness and personal motivation. You'll consolidate your own research, ideas, creative thinking and presentation skills. You'll also learn to facilitate the development of ideas through to preliminary outcomes.


Module code
TI3003


Professional Practice & Business Awareness
This module informs critical and contextual awareness, particularly in the area of professional practice and business. You will develop knowledge and skills necessary for contemporary design practice and cultivate knowledge and understanding of the professional experience of other design practitioners.


Module code
TI3013
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers in Textile Design
This course is a great starting point for a career in surface pattern design, textile interior design or as a design maker or textile artist.


Our graduates have also gone on to work in printmaking, illustration and graphic design. As well as retail buying, teaching, museum conservation and trend forecasting.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
UCAS: 96-112 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: MMM-DMM
BTEC Diploma: DD-D*D*
Pass Access Course: 96-112 UCAS points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 96-112 points from Higher Level subjects
T Level: P (C+) - M
IELTS: 6.0 with no component lower than 5.5
GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and English or equivalent
Applicants are required to submit a digital portfolio
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Not got the grades?
Our Foundation Entry programme could be exactly what you're looking for. It provides an alternative route to study for this degree.


Find out moreabout foundation entry programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) with Modern Language
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
See individual language details
DELIVERY
In Person
Sandwich option
Prepare to work globally and digitally with our hands-on Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) with a Modern Language degree with professional qualification opportunities.


Read lessabout the Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) with Modern Language course
This teacher training degree programme is a blend of practical and theoretical modules with work-based learning opportunities. No prior teaching experience is required as we teach you what you need to know and do. Additional qualifications offered within your degree. Combine TESOL with one of these languages:


Beginner level: Korean Japanese, Spanish, Chinese or Russian
Post A Level: French or Spanish
By the end of your degree, you will be at least a B2 level in your chosen language. This means you'll be a confident speaker and be able to communicate effectively with native speakers.


You’ll have the exciting opportunity to go on a period abroad to improve your language and experience living there.  Your degree is four years with a period abroad, or three years without.


Why study with us
3rd
in the UK for student satisfaction
Complete University Guide (Linguistics)
2023/24
3rd
in the UK for academic support
National Student Survey (Teacher Training) (compared with unis in the Guardian University Guide)
2023
An opportunity to qualify as a Trinity CertTESOL teacher by the end of Year 2 at no additional cost.
Our course team includes researchers and practitioners with experience and expertise in teaching in the UK and internationally.
Spend an optional period abroad in Year 3 to develop your language skills, cultural awareness and network. You’ll study at a university, do a work placement or work as a teaching assistant on your period abroad.
What you'll do
Interactive workshops and live observations of real English language classes focussing on theories and practice.
Practical, work-based experience from Year 1 to develop your employability profile.
You’ll be taught by highly qualified, research active academics in state-of-the-art facilities, with a resource centre for language learning and teacher development.
Chinese
Level
Chinese (beginner) for students who have limited or no knowledge of the language and will be able to learn the basics.


UCAS code X1T1


Studying Chinese
Learning Chinese (Mandarin) at the University of Central Lancashire is a truly transformative process. You’ll be able to grasp the language spoken by most people in the world, explore its fascinating history and culture, and embrace the wide-ranging opportunities offered by the second largest economy. It will lead you down a path where you meet experts in Chinese studies, experience various cultural activities, and understand the outside world from different perspectives such as cultures, politics and histories.


Learning Chinese could be a big challenge for you, but it will also be one of the most rewarding experiences that you gain.


As the world’s second largest economy, China is a new land of opportunities, attracting growing attention on the world stage. With Chinese language competence and cross-culture communication skills, you will widen your horizon. You will also gain related important soft skills that many employers are looking for, such as ‘a strong work ethic’ and ‘adaptability’.


Another notable highlight is the opportunities to visit China. The Chinese courses draw on the support of our Confucius Institute and our extensive links with China to include an intensive summer study tour in Beijing at the end of Year 1, and a full year abroad at the end of Year 2.


Why choose Chinese?


We offer a wide range of Chinese modules at the University for intensive and non-intensive learning. The contact hours of language and content lessons are very generous. For example, you will have 8-14 contact hours of Chinese language and content lessons per week in Year 1 and Year 2. Sufficient help and support from teachers are available inside and outside classroom. With the content-based modules, you’ll also develop a real understanding of how the Chinese language and civilisation have evolved over time to reflect the world views it takes today.


The year abroad keeps the cohesion of the two parts of Chinese language and business studies by including a study placement at a Chinese university and an internship in an international company based in China, the only undergraduate course with an embedded work placement in the UK.


We provide 360-degree support on your Chinese learning journey. You will not be alone in our learning community. You can gain advice from senior students at Peer Assisted Study Session, academic and personal guidance from your academic advisors and other support from a broader university student support network. We also offer wide-ranging extra-curricular activities organised by the Confucius Institute, the China Research Centre and student-led Chinese Society.
No matter whether you are a total beginner or someone with prior Chinese learning experience, we are happy to accommodate your learning needs. If you are ready to explore the world of Chinese, join us and we will work with you to get where you aim to be.
French
Level
French is available for students who have previously studied the language at A2 Level.


UCAS code X1R1


Studying French
As a student of French you’ll take part in interactive seminars and workshops. You will work towards a proficient level of French while developing a comprehensive knowledge of the cultures and societies where French is spoken.


Our post A-Level route enhances your level of French. As you progress you’ll have the flexibility to tailor your degree to your interests and develop skills and knowledge that are relevant for you.


In addition to the formal tuition, you’ll have the opportunity to develop your language skills, cultural knowledge and explore areas of research by engaging in a wide range of extra-curricular activities such as conversation groups, research seminars, employability workshops and cultural events.


You will have the chance to put your French and intercultural skills into practice by spending time working or studying in France or French speaking countries during your period abroad.


By studying French, you will be learning a global language. French is the fifth most spoken language in the world, with more than 300 million speakers living on five continents. It can open a whole new world of job opportunities in a variety of sectors including teaching, business, translation, interpreting as well as progression into postgraduate studies in linguistics, cultural studies, translation and interpreting, amongst others.


Proficiency in a language is already a skill that makes a significant difference in the job market. In the wider context of Brexit, fluency in European languages will become even more desirable, and being able to work in French and with French people, to know the language and the culture of our closest continental neighbours, will be a boost to your CV.


Why choose French?


Small student cohorts will give you the chance to actively participate in class and develop your writing, reading, speaking and listening in a friendly, inclusive and supportive learning community.


Employability is one of our keywords and we keep close contact with various companies that offer internships and jobs opportunities to our students and alumni, in France and in the UK.
In addition to the period abroad, there may be other opportunities to visit French speaking countries. Past students have had the opportunity to immerse themselves in the cultures of exciting places such as Metz, Nantes, Lyon, La Rochelle and Québec, amongst others.
Japanese
Level
Japanese (beginner) for students who have limited or no knowledge of the language and will be able to learn the basics.


UCAS code X1T2


Studying Japanese
Challenging, but rewarding, Japanese is one of the most studied languages. Japanese language skills enable you to dive into a society in which tradition meets modernity. You will learn how to write in three different scripts and experience the beauty of the spoken language. But learning Japanese is not just about learning a language, but rather experiencing a culture with a rich history and world-famous literary tradition.


You’ll learn how to communicate efficiently in written and spoken Japanese with an appropriate degree of fluency and accuracy in a range of situations. Get to grips with translating/interpreting between English and Japanese texts/speeches of a varied nature in a number of registers and genres. You’ll get to demonstrate your language skills through interactive portfolios, presentations and creative writing.


You’ll also get the opportunity to take part in lectures given by staff and guest speakers representing major disciplines in the sphere of Japanese Studies. You are encouraged to get actively involved in Japan-related events and student-led associations. Working with your peers you’ll practise your Japanese skills with native speakers, including exchange students at the University.


And don’t miss our Classical Japanese reading group and lots of other Japanese language related sessions.


Why choose Japanese?


You can experience many facets of Japanese culture on campus before heading to one of our almost 30 partner universities in Japan for your period abroad. We cooperate with Japanese culture associations at the University and on a national level.


We offer a comprehensive exploration of Japanese language, culture and history with immediately applicable employment skills and competences (translation/interpreting, business Japanese).


We take pride in our research-led teaching approach: our lecturers are active in research and incorporate their own expertise into teaching a variety of modules (discourse analysis, gender and language, translation theory and practice, history and politics).
In addition to our extensive study abroad opportunities at a vast selection of partner institutions in Japan, you’ll be encouraged to apply for Japanese government scholarships to support your postgraduate studies. We have also referred candidates to the DAIWA foundation and the European Association for Japanese Studies. There is also the opportunity to be considered for academic prizes, such as the Ivan Morris Prize.
Korean
Level
Korean (beginner) for students who have limited or no knowledge of the language and will be able to learn the basics.


UCAS code X1T4


Studying Korean
The Korean subject offers you a variety of modules including not only language learning, but also Korean history, culture, linguistics and politics.


Language learning starts from the absolute beginner level and conveys all four skills of speaking, reading, listening and writing. The classes are featured with interactive activities, together with conversation classes run by Korean native students, giving our students sufficient opportunities to practice and communicate using the language.


Besides the module setting, we provide many different experiences in the area of Korean studies. Korean speaking/poetry-making contests are held regularly every year, allowing you to explore more possibilities with your language.


Conferences and seminars invite scholars to bring in new frontier knowledge to share with you. We also organise the Korean Festival which students take a great part in making Korean food, trying traditional Korean dresses and K-pop.


In addition, the Korean Society is one of the largest student societies at the University. Liaising with them, we offer a buddy system for our students to connect with a Korean native student or students of different years in the Korean subject. It formulates a great learning-help environment for every one of our students.


Why choose Korean?


We have a strong teaching team and diverse Korean modules to choose from.
We offer a great exchanging programme with our partner universities in South Korea.
Get involved with our dynamic student activities to promote every student’s learning and extra-curricular experience.
Many students of the Korean subject will have the opportunity to go to top universities in South Korea as exchange students. Currently, we hold great partnerships with 15 universities, nine of which are located in Seoul and others in Pusan and other exciting cities.


Before going on the year abroad, you’ll be prepared by step-by-step guidance from staff and multiple experience talks from students who returned from their year abroad. We engage to help students maximise their learning and life experience in the Korean culture.




Russian
Level
Russian (beginner) for students who have limited or no knowledge of the language and will be able to learn the basics.


UCAS code X1R7


Studying Russian
Learning the Russian language doesn’t just involve expanding your vocabulary and conversational skills – you’ll also get to immerse yourself in Russian culture.


Expand your linguistic horizons by taking part in our vast programme of Russian events which will introduce you to the art, culture, geography, politics and people of the Russian-speaking world. And you’ll have opportunities to travel overseas to a Russian speaking country, such as Kazakhstan.


We’ll help you transform language learning into a truly creative process. As soon as you’ve grasped the structural principles – the ‘skeleton’ of the language - we’ll teach you how to dramatically enhance your vocabulary using a range of creative techniques. So you might find yourself inventing memorable mnemonics or drawing parallels with other languages to help you master complex grammar structures and commit thousands of new words to memory. You’ll get a real understanding of how the Russian language has evolved over time to reflect the cultural world surrounding it.


This course offers lots of opportunities to immerse yourself in Russian culture as you develop your language skills with native speakers.


You can get involved in themed events which run throughout the year. In recent times we’ve welcomed more than 60 visiting speakers and performers to the University, including a BAFTA award-winning Russian film director, poets, translators, classical musicians, rock bands, theatre groups, and even a Russian Orthodox icon-painting workshop delivered by Belorussian nuns.


As a regular host of international conferences featuring leading Russian academics, we also collaborate with Russian institutions. Our students have been to Russia to compete in international competitions for young scientists, and we regularly hold online events with Russian students.


Why choose Russian?


You’ll have the chance to experience a Russian speaking environment for yourself by spending time studying in leading Kazakh universities.
Immerse yourself in Russian culture by getting involved in everything our Russian Society has to offer – from tasting Russian cuisine to watching Russian movies, discussing Russian books and celebrating major Russian festivals.
Our School is home to the Vladimir Vysotsky Centre for Russian Studies, which seeks to bring Russian culture to western audiences and carries out research in the field of Russian thought, literature, music, history and art.
A good way to become a fluent speaker in Russian is by spending time living in a Russian speaking country and getting to know its people. For example Kazakhstan, which is a former Republic of the USSR where Russian is still widely spoken. During this course you’ll have opportunities to travel to Kazakhstan and spend time studying at an institution there. We have links with some of the top universities in Astana (current capital) and Almaty (former capital).




Spanish
Level
Spanish (beginner) for students who have limited or no knowledge of the language and will be able to learn the basics. We also offer Spanish who have previously studied the language at A2 Level.


UCAS code X1R4


Studying Spanish
As a student of Spanish you will take part in interactive seminars and workshops. You’ll work towards a proficient level of Spanish while developing a comprehensive knowledge of the cultures and societies where Spanish is spoken.


In addition to the formal tuition, you’ll have the opportunity to develop your language skills, cultural knowledge and explore areas of research by engaging in a wide range of extra-curricular activities such as conversation groups, research seminars, employability workshops and cultural events.


You’ll have the chance to put your Spanish and intercultural skills into practice by spending time working or studying in Spain or Latin America during your period abroad.


By studying Spanish, you will be learning a global language with more than 450 million speakers which can open a whole new world of job opportunities in a variety of sectors including teaching, business, translation, interpreting as well as progression into postgraduate studies in linguistics, cultural studies, translation and interpreting, amongst others.


Why choose Spanish?


Small student cohorts will give you the chance to actively participate in class and develop your writing, reading, speaking and listening in a friendly, inclusive and supportive learning community
Study Spanish as part of a wide range of distinctive study combinations
In addition to the period abroad, there might be other opportunities to visit Spanish speaking countries. Past students have had the opportunity to immerse themselves in the cultures of exciting places such as Granada, Alicante, Barcelona and Argentina, amongst others.


The University’s Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX) develops interdisciplinary analysis on contemporary issues such as Spanish literature in exile.


Modules
The modules you'll study will depend on the pathway you choose. You'll study compulsory modules related to TESOL. You'll then have compulsory modules from your chosen language pathway (Chinese, French, Japanese, Korean, Russian or Spanish). Depending on your pathway you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




TESOL Compulsory 1A : Theories and Practice in TESOL
This module aims to provide a foundation for your knowledge and skills required of a trained EFL teacher and raises awareness of the basic structures and functions of English. By the end of this module, you will be able to demonstrate familiarity with contemporary approaches in TEFL and have experience designing, planning, and teaching to groups of your peers.


Module code
EF1600


TESOL Compulsory 1B - Theories and Practice in TESOL
You'll gain skills necessary to approach teaching English to speakers of other languages. You'll focus on how people pick up language by reading, writing, vocabulary, pronunciation, and phonology. You'll receive an introduction into key linguistic themes in society and language diversity.


Module code
EF1650


TESOL Compulsory 1c: Theories and Practice in TESOL
Module code
EF1750


Chinese pathway
Chinese Language 1: On this module you'll be introduced to the main aspects of contemporary Chinese society and culture. This will provide a framework for the study of Chinese politics, economics and society.
Background to China: This module aims to introduce you to the developments in China, covering its society and culture. You will explore China's land, political structure, and history.
Module code
CL1000 | CL1001


French pathway
Introduction to French Studies: On this module you'll build on your knowledge of independent language learning. You'll gain higher-level receptive and active language skills and consolidate your grammar skills.
Module code
FR1000


Japanese pathway
Beginners Japanese: In this module you will be introduced to grammar, vocabulary, and basic communicative skills in Japanese. You'll learn the skills and knowledge necessary for further language learning independently.
Background to Japan: This module will introduce you to the study of Japan, its history, culture, traditions and society and a variety of interpretative approaches to Japan, from both Western and Japanese perspectives. You'll then have opportunities to carry out research in this area.
Module code
JS1106 | JS1059


Korean pathway
Background to Korea: You'll explores Korea's evolution globally and historically, looking at its unique characteristics in Asia Pacific. You'll analyse issues of development and change in Korea and develop an understanding of the problems and achievements of the country.
Beginners Korean: This module aims to enable you to read and write in the Korean alphabet and speak Korean confidently at a basic level.
Module code
KO1000 | KO1001


Russian pathway
Beginners Russian: This module will help you use the Russian language confidently with no prior knowledge or experience. 
Background to Russian Studies: This module aims to develop your cultural awareness by building an in-depth knowledge of important issues in contemporary Russia.
Module code
RN1001 | RN1003


Spanish pathway
Beginners
Beginners Spanish: On this module you'll quickly gain appropriate written, oral and aural skills in Spanish. You will develop sound structural language foundations as the basis for further study of the language and develop the skills necessary for independent language learning.
Background to Hispanic Studies: In this module you will learn about the current issues in Spain and familiarise yourself with a range of sources both in English and in the target language. You'll learn about the different culture too whilst developing your independent skills.
Post A Level route
Introduction to Spanish Studies: This module aims to ensure you have the foundations for higher-level language skills, the skills necessary for independent language learning and acquaints you with different aspects of contemporary Spanish history, culture and society.
Module code
SH1050 | SH1052 | SH1000
TESOL Compulsory 2A or 2C
TESOL Compulsory 2A: Teaching Practice: This module builds on your knowledge and skills of the social and regional varieties of English. You'll be able to critically reflect on methods in language teaching within different contexts. You'll also have experience in planning, teaching and evaluating activities for a Tandem Learning partner.
or
TESOL Compulsory 2C: Observing Teaching: This module helps you become a thoughtful teacher by assessing English language learning. You'll observe real English learners, reflect on being a better teacher, and consider lesson planning, materials, classroom management, and professional behaviour.
Module code
EF2600 | EF2601


TESOL Compulsory 2B :Theories in TESOL
This module covers a range of skills for your development as an EFL teacher, such as language awareness, analysing English, evaluating, adapting, and designing tasks, activities, and materials for TEFL, classroom dynamics, and creating a climate for learning.


Module code
EF2650


ESOL and World Englishes
In this module you will be introduced to the skills required to teach English to speakers of other languages. You will further examine the implications of English as a common method of communication across borders.


Module code
EF2216


Chinese pathway
Beginners Chinese Language and Society: This module will build on your Chinese language skills to expand your vocabulary in a conversation focused approach. You will mater complex grammatical structures of Chinese and be able to communicate in a range of interactive situations for a year abroad in China.
Intermediate Chinese Literacy: On this module you'll develop your reading and writing skills and build on your vocabulary. You'll also enhance your written Chinese skills, gain an understanding complex grammatical structures, and build on your understanding of Chinese culture.
Module code
CL2004 | CL2201


French pathway
French Language and Society 1: In this module you'll build on skills in oral and written communication developed in the first-year. You'll study a wide and varied selection of audio and video recordings as well as media texts. You will take part in workshops such as role-play, debate, interpreting, and language analysis.
French Language and Society 2: This module aims to build upon your language skills, enable you to achieve advanced competence in communicating in French in a range of complex situations, and provide you with the opportunity to further examine specialised areas of French society and enable you to carry out independent research and develop your analytical skills.
Module code
FR2001 | FR2203


Japanese pathway
Beginners Japanese Language and Society 1: The module aims for you to develop competence in communicating in Japanese in a range of social situations and to build on your grammar and vocabulary.
Beginners Japanese Language and Society 2: This module aims to further develop your Japanese in a range of social situations as well as to build solid foundations in grammar and vocabulary.
Module code
JS2001 | JS2002


Korean pathway
Beginners Korean Language and Society 1: On this module you'll improve your language skills in Korean, promoting competence in communication across defined contexts. You'll enhance your awareness of Korean culture and become an independent learner and proficient language user.
Beginners Korean Language and Society 2: In this module you will gain confidence in communicating in Korean. You will develop analytical skills for understanding aspects of the Korean society and culture.
Module code
KO2001 | KO2003


Russian pathway
Beginners Russian Language and Society 1: This unit of learning aims to enable you to use knowledge gained at level one to develop more specialised language skills so you can use different styles and registers. It will enhance your interactive skills and independent learning ability.
Beginners Russian Language and Society 2: This module aims to develop your knowledge of modern Russia, exploring recent history and culture in order to provide you with a framework for the country's current affairs, expand your linguistic ability using historic and political discourse, and prepare you for the experience of studying and working in a culture different from your own.
Module code
RN2001 | RN2002


Spanish pathway
Beginners
Beginners Spanish Language and Society: The module enables you to develop more specialized language skills to be able to use different styles and registers. The module enhances interactive skills and independent learning ability, as well as strengthening cultural understanding, attitudes, and Spanish ways of life.
Beginners Spanish Language and Society 2: This module will develop your knowledge of modern Spain. You'll explore Spain's recent history to understand the country's current affairs and broaden your linguistic ability using historic and political discourse.
Post A Level
Spanish Language and Society 1: This module aims to build on your knowledge of the Spanish language and how to communicate in Spanish in range of complex situations. You will also gain knowledge in more specialised areas of Spanish society as well as developing your registers such as cultural, socio-political and socio-economic.
Spanish Language and Society 2: This module lets you build on your language skills and you'll therefore achieve a high competence in communicating in Spanish. You'll also be able to examine specialised areas of Spanish society.
Module code
SH2050 | SH2054 | SH2001 | SH2002
Optional modules
Depending on your pathway you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Project Planning and Research Methods in Language Teaching
In this module you will carry out your research project. The project you create will help you develop your practical and personal skills. You will be able to make comparisons and review a range of concepts and models.


Module code
EF2620


Chinese pathway
Aspects of Chinese Society: This module will enhance your understanding of various aspects of contemporary Chinese society through analysis of appropriate film, video and written materials. This will act as a foundation to prepare you for your placement abroad.
Module code
CL2001


French pathway
Introduction to Theory and Techniques of Translation (French): This module is designed to give you an insight into translation techniques. You'll learn to extend your lexical and grammatical knowledge of the foreign language using a problem-solving approach in workshop sessions.
Module code
FR2202


Japanese pathway
Aspects of Japanese Society: This module explores aspects of Japanese society to prepare you for the period abroad by enhancing your understanding of various aspects of Japanese society through language activities.
Module code
JS2051


Korean pathway
Structure, Variation and Change in the Korean Language: This module will build the foundations of understanding of basic theories and research methods in language studies.
Contemporary Korean Society and Culture: This module will enhance your grasp of modern Korean history, and delve into the historical and political contexts of cultural phenomena in both South and North Korea.
Module code
KO2002 | KO2005


Russian pathway
Introduction to Theory & Techniques of Translation (Russian): In this module, you will be introduced to some of the principles on which translation is based by examining passages in Russian and English. Attention will be drawn to differences between Russian and English relating to grammar, vocabulary and punctuation. Issues such as translation loss, the effect on the target reader, the translation of cultural references and of metaphor will be examined.
Module code
RN2003


Spanish pathway
Introduction to Theory and Techniques of Translation (Spanish): You will learn translation techniques and develop lexical and grammatical language knowledge. The module uses a problem-solving approach in workshop sessions.
Module code
SH2202
TESOL Compulsory 3: Theories & Practice in TESOL
This module will build on your teaching skills and practice. You'll plan, deliver and critically reflect on a series of lessons for learners of English.


Module code
EF3650


Project or dissertation
Translation Project in a Modern Language: On this module, you will be provided with the opportunity to pursue a lengthy piece of translation from a modern language into English. This will allow you to contend with challenges of translation against the background of a detailed study of a specialised subject.
or
Independent Research Project: In this module, you will produce a dissertation using your extensive research on a topic of your choice that is relevant to your programme of study.
or
Dissertation: The dissertation will enhance your intellectual skills by giving you the opportunity to carry out a significant piece of research in a clearly identified area of interest relevant to your studies.
Module code
ML3026 | ML3990 | ML3995


Chinese pathway
Chinese Language Studies: This module builds on your previous skills and knowledge. You'll develop your Chinese language and communication skills, and your awareness of Chinese socio-culture.
or
Chinese Language 3: On this module, you'll improve your Chinese reading skills for a wide range of words. You'll also develop mediation skills like translation and summarisation, while exploring modern Chinese culture and society through primary sources in Chinese.
and
Understanding Chinese Economy and Society: This module develops a comprehensive knowledge of what business is like in contemporary China. You will develop the skills to study and translate a wide array of theoretical works around a variety of themes and topics including correspondence, semi-legal documents and news reports.
Module code
CL3205 | CL3201 | CL3202


French pathway
French Language Studies: On this module you'll build your existing skills and knowledge and develop an advanced understanding of French. You'll also build on your self-management and linguistic skills, enhancing your learning.
or
French Language: This module aims to strengthen and advance language skills you gained in prior modules or equivalent experience. It focuses on enabling you to achieve a high level of proficiency in both spoken and written French, allowing you to communicate fully and fluently at the level of educated French speakers.
and
French Language in Context: The aim of this module is to give you advanced skills in communicating French, both spoken and written. You'll build on your skills in presentations and extended essay writing as well as in-depth analysis and research in French.
Module code
FR3061 | FR3001 | FR3002


Japanese pathway
Japanese Language Studies: The aim of this module is to build on your period abroad experience. You will learn and further develop your language skills to communicate with confidence, fluency and accuracy.
or
Japanese Language 3: On this module you will put your knowledge of Japanese into practise from your learning experience at your host institution in Japan.
Module code
JS3050 | JS3051


Korean pathway
Korean Language Studies: This module enables you to communicate effectively in diverse situations with varying levels of formality and politeness, achieving a high proficiency in both spoken and written Korean, equivalent to educated speakers.
or
Korean Language 3: This module enhances and refines your language skills from previous academic years. You'll learn to communicate effectively in diverse situations with varying levels of formality and politeness.
and
Korean Language for Academic Purpose: In this module you will develop your formal style of speaking, reading and writing. You will be able to communicate at a high degree level of Korean
Module code
KO3002 | KO3001 | KO3003


Russian pathway
Russian Language Studies: In this module, you will develop your Russian language skills. You'll gain a high degree of spoken and written Russian to communicate fluently at the level of educated Russian speakers.
or
Russian Language 3: On this module you'll further develop your Russian language skills. You'll attain a high degree of proficiency in spoken and written Russian and be able to communicate fully and fluently.
and
Russian Literary Identities: This module introduces Russian literary-philosophical debates and themes from the 19th century to the present. You'll explore the interplay between Russian literature and society, developing an understanding of the relationship between literature, philosophy, and socio-political reality.
Module code
RN3001 | RN3000 | RN3002


Spanish pathway
Spanish Language Studies: In this module, you will build upon skills and knowledge of the Spanish language. Your language competence will transform into an advanced degree of proficiency. You will also gain self-management and linguistic skills. The module aims to maintain and enhance language learning beyond the course.
or
Spanish Language: In this module you will develop your previously acquired language skills and reach a high degree of proficiency in spoken and written Spanish defined as the ability to communicate fully and fluently at the level of educated speakers of Spanish.
and
An Introduction to Micro-literature in Spanish: This module will allow you to trace the development of different forms of micro-literature in Spanish from the beginning of the 20th Century to the present day, and consider the reasons why many well-known authors hold these forms of literary expressions in esteem.
Module code
SH3002 | SH3001 | SH3008
Optional modules
Depending on your pathway you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Current Issues in TESOL
You'll evaluate the method of teaching you currently practise. You will take part in support sessions for guided reading to further develop your skills. You'll undertake practical tasks oriented to your teaching context to demonstrate critical awareness of each issue in relation to teaching and learning.


Module code
EF3680


Teaching Young Learners
Our module is designed to extend your knowledge in the specialist area of Young Learner Teaching within the wider field of TESOL. Furthermore, you will develop the professional skills to begin a career within Young Learner teaching by giving you the tools to analyse, design and develop learning materials and activities.


Module code
EF3681


Teaching Practicum
This module will allow you to build on your basic teaching skills, through planning, delivering and critically reflecting on a series of lessons. You'll also extend your theoretical and practical knowledge about second language learning and teaching.


Module code
EB3602


Techniques and Practice of Interpreting
Introducing you to basic interpreting techniques and enable you to develop your communicative language skills in English and another language.


Module code
ML3205


Chinese pathway
Theory and Practice of Translation (Chinese): On this module you'll be introduced to relevant aspects in linguistics and basic translation theories. You'll become more aware of genre, register and text typology and the constraints of different text types, especially those in advertisements and audio-visual translation.
Module code
CL3004


Japanese pathway
Decoding Japan through Cultural Readings and Translation: In this module you will read and analyse Japanese texts of various types. You will develop advanced skills in language processing by analysing cultural issues in Japanese society.
Module code
JS3079


Korean pathway
Divided Korea: In this module you will explore the overview of the historical and political development of divided Korea. Examples include major inter-Korean conflicts. You will explore a variety of books, journals, online resources and films.
Module code
KO3008
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Your BA (Hons) TESOL with a Modern Language degree gives you opportunities all over the world and online.


Our graduates have gone on to enjoy successful careers in teaching (UK or overseas), education management, publishing, the civil service, translation and interpreting. Many of our graduates are now working overseas.


If you choose a career elsewhere, you will have acquired many transferable skills which will be highly valued.


Read less
Many of our graduates choose to do postgraduate qualifications with us directly following undergraduate study, or after a period of work. As an example, our highly popular online MA TESOL with Applied Linguistics can be studied at a distance (in the UK or overseas) or on Preston Campus.


You might be interested in the following postgraduate programmes at UCLan. UCLan graduates are eligible for a 20% discount on course fees:


MA TESOL with Applied Linguistics
MA Interpreting and Translation
MA North Korean Studies
We also offer a number of places to students who wish to study research degrees (MA by Research, MPhil, PhD).


Current graduates can link into our international Alumni Network of former graduates for advice, support, job opportunities and information. Connecting with graduates who are currently living and working overseas is an invaluable tool to prepare you for a future career in the UK, overseas or online.
Entry requirements
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement. If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.


We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college. If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account. Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.


Unsure if you meet our entry requirements? Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.


SELECT YOUR COUNTRY/REGION OF QUALIFICATION OR EDUCATION


UK
If you wish to study your chosen language at post A-Level you should have previously studied it at A2 Level, inclusive of the entry tariffs below. Please check the language options above for language level availability. Some language ability should be evident in the application for studying ab inito. UCAS: 104-112 points at A2
BTEC Extended Diploma: DMM
BTEC Diploma: D*D-D*D*
Pass Access Course: 104-112 points
International Baccalaureate Diploma: Pass including 104-112 points from Higher Level
T Level: M
IELTS: 7.0 with no component lower than 6.5
And GCSEs: 5 at grade C/4 including Maths and preferably a GCSE Foreign Language at grade C and GCSE English Language grade C/4 but preferably grade B/5
Use our UCAS points calculator
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Calculate your grades
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Sandwich year
£1,500 for the sandwich year
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Sun, Earth & Climate
ATTENDANCE


Part-time
LOCATION


Online Learning
START


September 2023
DURATION
1 Year
START
September 2023
DELIVERY
Online Learning
In this course you will be introduced to the Sun and the Earth as complex systems, and how they interact to produce the environment we live in. Alongside detailed course notes your studies will include a mixture of theoretical and observational approaches with data-based and observational exercises.


Read lessabout the Sun, Earth & Climate course
Starting with an exploration of the Sun, Earth and Climate as complex systems, this module then looks at the interactions that cause them to be interlinked. You will study developments on astronomical, geological, historical and annual time scales and gain an understanding of the context of such matters as climate change and space weather. Practical exercises extend this understanding and develop appropriate scientific skills.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Sun, Earth and Climate
This module provides an introduction to Sun, Earth and Climate, suitable for people with little prior knowledge of the subject and with a limited background in physics and maths. You'll gain an understanding of physical laws and concepts as applied to the Sun-Earth system and the Earth’s climate.


Module code
AA1058
Course delivery
This is a distance learning course which is taught entirely online with no face-to-face teaching.


100%
Online
Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Course overview
Outcomes, Teaching, Learning and Assessment Methods


This module aims to:


provide an academically rigorous programme of Astronomy suitable for astronomy enthusiasts with or without previous formal qualifications.
provide an understanding of physical laws and concepts as applied to the Sun-Earth system and the Earth’s climate.
provide an introduction to aspects of observational solar astronomy.
develop elementary problem solving skills.
provide the opportunity to develop skills and techniques used in solar astronomy and solar-terrestrial physics, which have wider applications (these include data analysis, preparation of scientific reports).
enhance the student’s key skills (communication, numerical skills, IT, time-management).
Read less
This course covers a number of topics:


The Solar System


The Sun and Earth are presented in the context of Astronomy, with a description of orbital motions, Kepler's Laws, Newtonian gravitation, solar eclipses, transits of Mercury and Venus and related phenomena. Basics Physics concepts of relevance to the course are also introduced: these include charged particles; electrical, gravitational and magnetic forces and fields; the concept of astrophysical plasmas; and the nature of light and the electromagnetic spectrum.


The structure of the Sun and the Earth


Brief overview of internal structure of Sun and Earth, leading to characteristics of the various regions of the solar and terrestrial atmospheres; comparison between the magnetic field of the Sun and the Earth; names and dimensions of the atmospheric layers; the structure of the magnetosphere and ionosphere. The solar spectrum as seen from the Earth. The sunspot cycle and the solar dynamo; Maunder minimum; "proxies" for solar activity.


Observations of the Sun and the Earth


Techniques for safe solar observing (also refer to workbook exercise on safe observing); solar and Earth observations from the ground and from space; historical observations; solar features; geomagnetic observations and indices; weather stations.


Energy from the Sun to the Earth


The flow of energy from Sun to Earth is described in its various forms. The concepts of solar irradiance and insolation are introduced, and the way in which they affect the Earth’s energy budget discussed. The influence on the Earth of solar flares and Coronal Mass Ejections.


Earth’s climate and climate change


Brief review of selected components of the Earth's climate: general circulation; cyclones/anticyclones; quasi-biennial oscillation; El Niño/La Niña. Observational evidence of global warming is reviewed and the role of climatic forcings discussed, including anthropogenic forcing from greenhouse gas emissions and solar forcing.


Space Weather


The effects of solar eruptions on the Earth’s space environment and technologies are presented. The phenomenon of the Aurorae and its link to solar events are discussed.


Sun, Earth and Climate


Exercises Introduction to safe solar observing: projection techniques, telescopes. Data analysis exercises, question sheets and assessment briefing.


Learning outcomes


On successful completion of this module a student will be able to:


Describe or define concepts and astronomical terms from the syllabus
Solve elementary problems in basic solar astronomy and solar-terrestrial physics
Demonstrate elementary skills in safe solar observation, measurement, and log keeping
Demonstrate elementary data analysis and laboratory report writing skills
Summarise simple scientific information and concepts and draw conclusions.
Entry Requirements
To study the Certificate in Sun, Earth and Climate, students are normally required to have GCSE grade C in Mathematics and English or equivalent high school qualification.


Fees and funding
2023/24
UK
Distance Part-time
£975 per 20 credits
International
Distance Part-time
£975 per 20 credits


Applied Biomedical Science Healthcare Science Practitioner – Level 6
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
DELIVERY
In Person
Our Applied Biomedical Science degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS). You'll study health and disease and learn how the human body functions during normal and diseased states.


Read lessabout the Applied Biomedical Science course
This course will give you an in-depth understanding of the human body in health and disease. It is accredited by the IBMS, which is essential if you want to work in hospital pathology laboratories. You'll learn by studying practical and theoretical modules. Helping you to gain the knowledge needed to make informed decisions about patient treatment in a lab setting.


Year 1 provides a sound theoretical and practical framework covering:


biochemistry
microbiology
physiology and pharmacology
key laboratory skills.
In Year 2 you'll develop analytical and critical skills and study in detail areas such as:


human physiology
metabolism
molecular biology
enhanced practical and research skills
The final year of the course covers a range of specialist modules taught by expert staff. You'll complete a research project, which will allow you to integrate your acquired theory and skills.


Why study with us
We tailor learning to prepare you for a career in the NHS. You'll be guaranteed work placements in NHS pathology laboratories. This will allow you to complete a portfolio to achieve HCPC registration.
Taught by internationally-recognised research-active scientists and biomedical scientists.
Our Biomedical Science course ranked 1st in the North West for graduate prospects. (Complete University Guide 2022).
What you'll do
You’ll develop a range of lab-based and theoretical skills associated with sound scientific practice.
We have a strong focus on practical experience, with access to excellent facilities. This ensures that you graduate with real-world skills.
Course staff have a long association with the NHS pathology service. Each has a deep understanding and extensive experience in pathology laboratory procedures.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Fundamentals of Biosciences
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the science behind biology. You'll learn about the molecular biology of the cell through to the level of the whole organism. You'll also gain theoretical knowledge and practical experience of common biological techniques.


Module code
BL1011


Essential Skills in Biosciences
Introducing you to the concepts of chemistry as well as the relevant mathematical manipulations. You will develop your knowledge in literature searching, the application of databases, scientific communication, ethics, and health and safety. You will also get the necessary knowledge and skills to support the understanding of biosciences as a discipline and a profession.


Module code
BL1012


Biosciences in Practice
The module introduces the professional roles in biosciences. You will study different disciplines within bioscience through lectures and practicals. You will leave with analytical and written skills to present laboratory data. You will explore employability within haematology, clinical biochemistry, clinical microbiology, and cellular pathology, as well as physiology, pharmacology, genetics, and the wider healthcare environment.


Module code
BL1013
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Fundamentals of Biosciences
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the science behind biology. You'll learn about the molecular biology of the cell through to the level of the whole organism. You'll also gain theoretical knowledge and practical experience of common biological techniques.


Module code
BL1011


Essential Skills in Biosciences
Introducing you to the concepts of chemistry as well as the relevant mathematical manipulations. You will develop your knowledge in literature searching, the application of databases, scientific communication, ethics, and health and safety. You will also get the necessary knowledge and skills to support the understanding of biosciences as a discipline and a profession.


Module code
BL1012


Biosciences in Practice
The module introduces the professional roles in biosciences. You will study different disciplines within bioscience through lectures and practicals. You will leave with analytical and written skills to present laboratory data. You will explore employability within haematology, clinical biochemistry, clinical microbiology, and cellular pathology, as well as physiology, pharmacology, genetics, and the wider healthcare environment.


Module code
BL1013
Bioscience Practical Skills
During this module, you'll develop your experimental skills and learn about various proteins. You'll examine cell biology, molecular biology, and immunological techniques. You'll also explore biological samples, cellular components, and interactions with external factors.


Module code
BL2011


Biology of Disease
You will gain knowledge of the nature of different pathology specialisms, including immunology, microbiology, haematology, cellular pathology, and biochemistry. You will investigate causes and disease effects at the cellular and subcellular levels. You will study aetiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment currently presenting major healthcare challenges.


Module code
BL2012


Molecules to Cells
On this module you'll learn how genomes are maintained, copied and inherited. You'll also learn how gene expression is regulated, how mutations are acquired and the effects mutations have on protein function, maturation and trafficking. Intracellular signalling pathways, the cell cycle and cell death will also be studied.


Module code
BL2013


Placement and Professional Practice
The Roles, Attitudes And Working Practices Of Healthcare Professionals – The wider aims of the NHS will be explored. In addition, the importance of regulations, the patient and carer perspective and communication issues across a range of boundaries will be further explored. Knowledge And Accompanying Skills And Attitudes To Work As A Healthcare Science Practitioner – To explore and reflect upon personal qualities and behaviours such as time management and organisational skills, communication with patients and professionals and maintenance of their own well-being and personal development. This will be recorded by starting the compilation of a portfolio.


Module code
BL2015
Research Project including End Point Assessment
During this module, you'll apply scientific knowledge and transferable skills to produce an independent piece of scientific research. You'll utilise a range of laboratory and/or research skills to analyse, interpret and present scientific data. Allowing you to complete your IBMS registration training portfolio.


Module code
BL3025


Diagnosis of Disease
Study the different pathology specialisms and develop an appreciation of the interdisciplinary nature of biomedical science. You'll understand and gain experience in applying and delivering a range of core and specialised methods from across Biomedical Sciences. The module will give you the necessary skills to apply knowledge in pursuing a career within Biomedical Science.


Module code
BL3031
Future careers
Our BSc Applied Biomedical Science degree provides a government-prescribed route into NHS pathology. Biomedical scientists are employed in a range of areas including, hospitals, industry and the Civil Service. 




All the necessary accreditations are in place for you to pursue a career as an NHS biomedical scientist.


As a graduate, you can follow a career in areas such as:


the bioscience industry
diagnostic and pathology laboratories
toxicology
public health
medical research
bioengineering
bioinformatics
Former graduates include many NHS biomedical scientists and research scientists. Graduates have also gone on to pursue further studies in dentistry or medicine.
Applied Community & Social Care Studies (Foundation Entry)
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
LLH5
DELIVERY
In Person
If you want to study community and social care studies at university level but don’t have the formal qualifications, this foundation entry degree is for you. Successfully complete it and you’ll be guaranteed a place on the BA (Hons) Applied Community and Social Care Studies degree.


Read moreabout the Applied Community & Social Care Studies (Foundation Entry) course






Why study with us
Joint
1st
in the UK for graduate prospects (on track)
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
2nd
in the North West for research quality
Complete University Guide (Social Work)
2024
Excellent student support from the foundation entry course team and the University’s wider support services.
Guided opportunities to access structured work experience via our own Centre for Volunteering and Community Leadership (CVCL).
Engage in interactive lectures and seminars, with two full days per week taking place in-person on campus, 100% face-to-face.
What you'll do
Interactive, inclusive and engaging lectures and seminars which incorporate a blended approach to learning. These are delivered both in class and online over two set days, for flexibility of learning and study.
Opportunities to study international approaches to community and social care in a variety of countries, including Poland and Greece.
You will work in partnership with our on-campus Comensus team, who provide engaging service-user participation.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Study skills & Digital Literacy
The module aims to help you develop a range of study skills including digital tools needed to succeed both on this course and on the degree level study. You'll develop confidence in study skills, including digital applications available on the University network as you continue to acquire and develop a range of course skills.


Module code
SWC024


Understanding Individuals, Families and Communities
The aim of this module is to provide you with opportunities to learn about and experience approaches that have proven to be effective in understanding individuals, families and communities.


Module code
SWC030


Working with Individuals, Families and Communities
The aim of this module is to provide you with opportunities to learn about and experience approaches that have proven to be effective in working with individuals, families and communities


Module code
SWC031


Asset-based Community Development
The aim of this module is to offer you opportunities to reflect upon, assimilate and apply key asset and arts-based community development concepts and skills, in partnership with residents and practitioners to community-led projects and in volunteer placements with local organisations.


Module code
SWC035
Supporting Well-being and Development
Significant classical and contemporary theories of child, adolescent and adult development. Ecological influences on children and their families. Socio-cultural influences on development. Understanding atypical development. Adverse childhood experiences and safeguarding risk factors. Social and emotional resilience. Social and emotional wellbeing. Professional responses to support well-being and development, and enabling the voice of the child, young person or family members to be heard and understood. You are required to undertake and attain a pass mark of 40% or above for the written assessment.


Module code
SW1813


Introduction to Sociology for Community Practice
The module aims to introduce sociological concepts and theories and explore how these are relevant to professions in social care, community work and welfare provision. The module will encourage you to question existing understandings of society, family and community by exploring different sociological perspectives.


Module code
SW1815


Understanding Welfare Development
This module is rooted in the belief that a proper understanding of social policy and social welfare demands an appropriate historical dimension. The module will focus on the elements of continuity and change that have been significant in shaping both the general orientation of social policy and welfare developments in Britain. Attention is devoted to the way in which policies have reflected ideological commitments and the consequences of those developments for disadvantaged groups in society. The specific aims are to consider the interplay of the forces involved in the origin and growth of British social provision, and to develop an understanding and appreciation of the importance of a historical perspective in the study of social policy and social welfare


Module code
SW1816


Politics and Policy for Practice
The specific aims of this module are to provide you with the opportunity to demonstrate knowledge and awareness of the relevance of key aspects of British politics and government to social policy and practice. 


Module code
SW1817


Introduction to Relational Practice
The aim of the module is to introduce you to knowledge, skills and values that underpin relational practice. This includes communicating in a variety of ways with a variety of audiences. The module will enable you to explore how we need to build strong relationships to create positive changes with those we work with. 


Module code
SW1826


Introduction to Community Practice
This module aims to give you an introduction to community practice, in this instance defined as practice in any role that provides a health or social benefit to society. It'll enable you to make links between legislation, theory and practice and consider some of the important aspects of delivering community and care services.


Module code
SW1900
Comparative Social Policy
Comparative social policy is a rapidly expanding field of study. This module provides an opportunity to expand your knowledge in this field by focusing on social policy developments in an international context. It encourages you to critically evaluate current international social policy trends and challenges, by focusing on a series of national and regional case studies.


Module code
SW2021


Managing and Delivering Welfare
The management of resources in welfare provision has become increasingly important. Public service delivery cannot be understood without political and managerial ideas and concepts. Attempts to ‘modernise’ public services, the imposition of ‘austerity’, the increase of outsourcing, the private and third sectors all represent major strands of national and local government policy. This module aims to provide knowledge of management models and theory for service delivery, the impact of ‘managerialist’ ideas on welfare provision and to explore approaches to funding and delivering services. It aims to identify and examine significant principles and themes underpinning contemporary social welfare policy. This will equip you to evaluate how effectively welfare services meet the needs of the people who use them or work in them.


Module code
SW2023


Developing Effective Relational Practice
The module aims to build on the themes covered in the module ‘Understanding Relational Practice’ (SW1806). The aim will be to improve your understanding of developing relational practice in relation to assessments and support planning and intervention. The module seeks to elaborate your understanding of the theories behind participative practice. 


Module code
SW2804


Researching Social Inequality
During this module you'll develop your understanding of social inequality and relevant research thereon. This will involve exploration of different forms of social inequality, how they manifest and intersect. Particular attention is given to analysis of how social inequalities are researched and the impact of this on representation and understanding of social inequality. Social inequalities in the UK and globally will be engaged with.


Module code
SW2805


Safeguarding for Community and Social Care Practitioners
Develop your knowledge of the policy, legislation, and guidance that shape contemporary approaches to safeguarding children, young people and vulnerable adults. Study and reflect upon the complexities associated with facilitating best-safeguarding practices across multi-agency settings.


Module code
SW2824


Applied Community Practice: Research and Development
This module will introduce you to using research skills to better understand the people we wish to serve, it will also focus on developing research skills in practice. This module is aligned to your work experience.


Module code
SW2900
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Crime in Society: Introductory Themes
The module aims to provide an appreciation of the main theories of criminality, the extent and impact of offending in modern society and the experiences of offenders and victims within the criminal justice system. The module further aims to provide participants with the ability to appraise the principles and values embodied in current criminal justice policy, assess contemporary crime related concerns and the effects of discrimination and social problems experienced by offenders.


Module code
SW2017


Race, Racism & Ethnicity: Introductory Themes
This module will allow you to understand the key perspectives that inform debates on ‘race’, racism and ethnicity. You will examine the complex relationship with ideas regarding race in the UK and internationally. The module encourages discussion of these issues and how they relate to the world, communities, employment and more.


Module code
SW2020
Critical Social Policy
This module deals with contemporary issues and debates in social policy and the delivery of welfare. It critically assesses the relationship between ideology and concepts and specific areas of welfare provision. You will develop the ability to assess changes in social welfare provision by linking theory and explanation to the practice of, and developments within, social policy and welfare.


Module code
SW3802


Community Research Project
The module aims to provide you with the skills and knowledge to complete a small-scale community research project. This will be within community and social care settings. The skills taught and developed will have direct transferability to employment.


Module code
SW3811


Dissertation
The preparation and writing of a dissertation gives you the opportunity to conduct independent inquiry. You can choose a topic of interest; hence you play a major role in the focus of the study. The specific aims are to conduct in-depth research and assessment, collecting, examining and evaluation data for primary and secondary sources. This is a requirement for an Honours degree.


Module code
SW3823


Management Skills for Community Practice
The module aims to develop project and people management skills for community practice. It aims to embed innovation, development and best practice as cornerstones for improving service delivery and communities.


Module code
SW3900
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Drugs and Society: Critical Analysis
This module aims to provide an intermediate appreciation of what drugs are and what they do. The module provides an information relating to the scale and impact of drug use, appraisal of the social and criminal justice policy responses to illicit drug use as well as providing an understanding of theories relating to addiction, and key treatment models operational within services.


Module code
SW3045


Social Theory: Textual Analysis
You'll study three key texts that have had an influence on the debates of nature, role and purpose of collective social provision within social policy. You'll strengthen your analytical skills as you engage with the classic works. You'll become more aware of Marxist, Neo-Liberal and Social Democratic views on the development of British social policy.


Module code
SW3723


Social Housing and Homelessness: Critical Analysis
This module will develop your knowledge of the nature of social housing within the context of social rights. We will explore the ideas and values of both historical and contemporary policy debates in the provision of state funded housing. The aim is to understand of the role of housing as a fundamental element in addressing individual social rights, whilst exploring the implications if these rights are withheld.


Module code
SW3812


Mental Health and Social Care: Critical Analysis
To achieve greater knowledge and critical understanding of the core concepts, issues, theory and research in the social care of people recovering from mental ill-health.


Module code
SW3817
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
On completion of your chosen progression route, professional career and employment opportunities can be accessed.


Read less
On completion of your chosen progression route, professional career and employment opportunities can be accessed.


Graduates have gone on to work for a wide variety of employers as social and community workers within welfare settings, the voluntary and charitable sectors, education, health, the police, probation and the national offender service, youth offending teams, homelessness agencies, and the advice and research agencies in the voluntary or statutory sectors.


The course also provides excellent preparation for professional training at postgraduate level in areas such as probation, social work, housing management, teaching or academic research.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
First year
£9,250 for the first year
Full-time
£9,250 per year
International
First year
£16,400 for the first year
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Applied Community & Social Care Studies


ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
L590
DELIVERY
In Person
Foundation entry
Want to make a difference? Our BA (Hons) Applied Community and Social Care Studies course will provide you with a strong knowledge base and develop the key skills required for community and social care leadership roles.


Read lessabout the Applied Community & Social Care Studies course
This course is being reapproved under the University’s normal cycle of review. As such, the course structure and content may be changed to enable the University to deliver a better quality of educational experience to students.


A vast range of specialist modules and topics are available to suit your areas of interest: politics and policy; race, racism and society; researching social inequality; relational practice; safeguarding children and young people; mental health and social care; working with domestic abuse; drugs and society; poverty, exclusion and social justice; crime and society; and many more. The second year of the programme provides an opportunity for you to link your academic learning to real-world practice through a practical ‘Structured Work Experience’ requirement.


Course team members are experienced academics whose specialist research and scholarly activity is in areas associated with community or social care practice. In addition to academic experience, many staff on the course team have worked as qualified social workers, whilst most others have direct experience of practice in the social care and community development sectors.


In addition to enhancing your employment opportunities, the programme provides essential educational underpinnings for learners to progress onto further postgraduate study and research in, for example, social work, social policy, education and community leadership.
What you'll do
Interactive, inclusive and engaging lectures/ seminars incorporating a blended learning approach both in class and online for flexibility of learning and study.
Our strong links with employers and agencies enable you to link classroom learning to live experiences across a wide range of social care and community-based organisations.
You’ll be encouraged to enrich your experience by engaging with the School’s research culture through attending guest speaker seminars and conferences.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




Supporting Well-being and Development
Significant classical and contemporary theories of child, adolescent and adult development. Ecological influences on children and their families. Socio-cultural influences on development. Understanding atypical development. Adverse childhood experiences and safeguarding risk factors. Social and emotional resilience. Social and emotional wellbeing. Professional responses to support well-being and development, and enabling the voice of the child, young person or family members to be heard and understood. You are required to undertake and attain a pass mark of 40% or above for the written assessment.


Module code
SW1813


Introduction to Sociology for Community Practice
The module aims to introduce sociological concepts and theories and explore how these are relevant to professions in social care, community work and welfare provision. The module will encourage you to question existing understandings of society, family and community by exploring different sociological perspectives.


Module code
SW1815


Understanding Welfare Development
This module is rooted in the belief that a proper understanding of social policy and social welfare demands an appropriate historical dimension. The module will focus on the elements of continuity and change that have been significant in shaping both the general orientation of social policy and welfare developments in Britain. Attention is devoted to the way in which policies have reflected ideological commitments and the consequences of those developments for disadvantaged groups in society. The specific aims are to consider the interplay of the forces involved in the origin and growth of British social provision, and to develop an understanding and appreciation of the importance of a historical perspective in the study of social policy and social welfare


Module code
SW1816


Politics and Policy for Practice
The specific aims of this module are to provide you with the opportunity to demonstrate knowledge and awareness of the relevance of key aspects of British politics and government to social policy and practice. 


Module code
SW1817


Introduction to Relational Practice
The aim of the module is to introduce you to knowledge, skills and values that underpin relational practice. This includes communicating in a variety of ways with a variety of audiences. The module will enable you to explore how we need to build strong relationships to create positive changes with those we work with. 


Module code
SW1826


Introduction to Community Practice
This module aims to give you an introduction to community practice, in this instance defined as practice in any role that provides a health or social benefit to society. It'll enable you to make links between legislation, theory and practice and consider some of the important aspects of delivering community and care services.


Module code
SW1900
Comparative Social Policy
Comparative social policy is a rapidly expanding field of study. This module provides an opportunity to expand your knowledge in this field by focusing on social policy developments in an international context. It encourages you to critically evaluate current international social policy trends and challenges, by focusing on a series of national and regional case studies.


Module code
SW2021


Managing and Delivering Welfare
The management of resources in welfare provision has become increasingly important. Public service delivery cannot be understood without political and managerial ideas and concepts. Attempts to ‘modernise’ public services, the imposition of ‘austerity’, the increase of outsourcing, the private and third sectors all represent major strands of national and local government policy. This module aims to provide knowledge of management models and theory for service delivery, the impact of ‘managerialist’ ideas on welfare provision and to explore approaches to funding and delivering services. It aims to identify and examine significant principles and themes underpinning contemporary social welfare policy. This will equip you to evaluate how effectively welfare services meet the needs of the people who use them or work in them.


Module code
SW2023


Developing Effective Relational Practice
The module aims to build on the themes covered in the module ‘Understanding Relational Practice’ (SW1806). The aim will be to improve your understanding of developing relational practice in relation to assessments and support planning and intervention. The module seeks to elaborate your understanding of the theories behind participative practice. 


Module code
SW2804


Researching Social Inequality
During this module you'll develop your understanding of social inequality and relevant research thereon. This will involve exploration of different forms of social inequality, how they manifest and intersect. Particular attention is given to analysis of how social inequalities are researched and the impact of this on representation and understanding of social inequality. Social inequalities in the UK and globally will be engaged with.


Module code
SW2805


Safeguarding for Community and Social Care Practitioners
Develop your knowledge of the policy, legislation, and guidance that shape contemporary approaches to safeguarding children, young people and vulnerable adults. Study and reflect upon the complexities associated with facilitating best-safeguarding practices across multi-agency settings.


Module code
SW2824


Applied Community Practice: Research and Development
This module will introduce you to using research skills to better understand the people we wish to serve, it will also focus on developing research skills in practice. This module is aligned to your work experience.


Module code
SW2900
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Crime in Society: Introductory Themes
The module aims to provide an appreciation of the main theories of criminality, the extent and impact of offending in modern society and the experiences of offenders and victims within the criminal justice system. The module further aims to provide participants with the ability to appraise the principles and values embodied in current criminal justice policy, assess contemporary crime related concerns and the effects of discrimination and social problems experienced by offenders.


Module code
SW2017


Race, Racism & Ethnicity: Introductory Themes
This module will allow you to understand the key perspectives that inform debates on ‘race’, racism and ethnicity. You will examine the complex relationship with ideas regarding race in the UK and internationally. The module encourages discussion of these issues and how they relate to the world, communities, employment and more.


Module code
SW2020
Critical Social Policy
This module deals with contemporary issues and debates in social policy and the delivery of welfare. It critically assesses the relationship between ideology and concepts and specific areas of welfare provision. You will develop the ability to assess changes in social welfare provision by linking theory and explanation to the practice of, and developments within, social policy and welfare.


Module code
SW3802


Community Research Project
The module aims to provide you with the skills and knowledge to complete a small-scale community research project. This will be within community and social care settings. The skills taught and developed will have direct transferability to employment.


Module code
SW3811


Dissertation
The preparation and writing of a dissertation gives you the opportunity to conduct independent inquiry. You can choose a topic of interest; hence you play a major role in the focus of the study. The specific aims are to conduct in-depth research and assessment, collecting, examining and evaluation data for primary and secondary sources. This is a requirement for an Honours degree.


Module code
SW3823


Management Skills for Community Practice
The module aims to develop project and people management skills for community practice. It aims to embed innovation, development and best practice as cornerstones for improving service delivery and communities.


Module code
SW3900
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Drugs and Society: Critical Analysis
This module aims to provide an intermediate appreciation of what drugs are and what they do. The module provides an information relating to the scale and impact of drug use, appraisal of the social and criminal justice policy responses to illicit drug use as well as providing an understanding of theories relating to addiction, and key treatment models operational within services.


Module code
SW3045


Social Theory: Textual Analysis
You'll study three key texts that have had an influence on the debates of nature, role and purpose of collective social provision within social policy. You'll strengthen your analytical skills as you engage with the classic works. You'll become more aware of Marxist, Neo-Liberal and Social Democratic views on the development of British social policy.


Module code
SW3723


Social Housing and Homelessness: Critical Analysis
This module will develop your knowledge of the nature of social housing within the context of social rights. We will explore the ideas and values of both historical and contemporary policy debates in the provision of state funded housing. The aim is to understand of the role of housing as a fundamental element in addressing individual social rights, whilst exploring the implications if these rights are withheld.


Module code
SW3812


Mental Health and Social Care: Critical Analysis
To achieve greater knowledge and critical understanding of the core concepts, issues, theory and research in the social care of people recovering from mental ill-health.


Module code
SW3817
Course delivery
This course is taught face-to-face at one of our UK campuses.


100%
Face-to-face
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
BA (Hons) Applied Community and Social Care Studies graduates are well placed to work for a wide variety of employers in welfare settings: education, the police, probation and the national offender service, youth offending teams, housing management, substance misuse agencies and many more.


Read less
This programme seeks to prepare participants for graduate level employment in management and leadership roles across a range of settings within the community and social care sector, including schools, drugs agencies, youth offending services, probation, housing organisations and charities.


Examples of the roles graduates from this programme undertake include: family support workers, learning mentors, youth workers, community development workers, social workers (following additional training), drugs workers, agency managers and project co-ordinators.


Many of our students choose to stay with us and progress onto further study at master’s and doctoral level.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
Archaeology & Anthropology


ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Want to visit us on campus? Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
4P49
DELIVERY
In Person
If you’re interested in the story of human beings; how we evolved, why we live in different sorts of societies around the world, and how we interact with one another and the environment, then Archaeology & Anthropology is the course for you.


Read lessabout the Archaeology & Anthropology course
You’ll be able to combine cultural and biological anthropology with archaeology to study human cultures from the present day back to the evolutionary origins of humanity. This produces graduates with highly sought-after transferable skills including critical analysis, communication and collaboration.


This course benefits from state-of-the-art laboratory facilities. These include dedicated human bone labs, an archaeological science lab with areas for processing finds, a soil flotation unit, an imaging suite with 3D scanners and a suite of cutting-edge geophysical and excavation equipment.


The course is divided equally between modules in archaeology and anthropology and is accredited by both the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists, and the University Archaeology UK. You’ll acquire analytical and interpretive techniques to understand the nature and origins of people across selected time periods, developing the skills you need to understand the nature and origins of anthropological and archaeological evidence.


What you’ll do
Teaching is research-informed, practical and genuinely international in outlook. You’ll get to work alongside professionals in the field, including anthropologists, archaeologists and museum staff.
All students get to undertake a four week placement at an excavation site working alongside teaching staff and professionals from an archaeological organisation or museum.
You’ll have the flexibility to delve into the specialist areas that interest you most, with optional units in everything from the anthropology of animals to the study of hunter-gatherers around the 
World
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




The Archaeology of Britain
This module is designed to introduce you to the archaeology of the British Isles. It will begin with the evidence for the first inhabitants of Britain in the Palaeolithic and works through to the Industrial Revolution. It also encourages you to develop your communication skills, problem solving skills and skills in assessing information.


Module code
FZ1201


History of Archaeological Thought
You will be introduced to the development of archaeology as an interpretive discipline. The module shows key theoretical shifts through time. As well as introduces key figures and sites which have shaped the discipline. You’ll develop verbal and oral communication skills, problem solving skills and skills in accessing information.


Module code
FZ1203


Bones, Bodies and Burial
Our module will introduce you to archaeology and anthropology of death through a series of case studies exploring different kinds of relevant evidence. You will study both biological and social data to understand the range of past human responses to death.


Module code
FZ1205


Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
In this module you will be introduced to the basic principles and methods of social and cultural anthropology. The module will give you an introduction to the history of the discipline, to anthropological methods and the distinctiveness of the anthropological study of modern society.


Module code
FZ1206


Field Archaeology 1
The module aims to introduce you to the core skills in field archaeology and academic archaeological study. The module will give you the technical skills you need to study and undertake field archaeology and will provide an opportunity for working as part of a group whilst developing your academic skills.


Module code
FZ1207
Forensic Anthropology
The module explores archaeological and forensic aspects of human remains recovery. You'll learn about human anatomy and skeletal biology. You'll identify physical characteristics, age, race, and sex of human skeletons. The module also examines injuries, pathology, and causes of death.


Module code
FZ2051


Cultural Anthropology in Theory and Practice
Our module builds on reflective ideas that you will have developed in your earlier academic career. The aim of the module is to understand different interpretations prevalent in the study of anthropology through a series of contemporary case studies.


Module code
FZ2211


Field Archaeology 2
In this module you will gain the knowledge and skills needed to study archaeological research projects in a team. During the project you will be tested under new pressures and challenges of excavation.


Module code
FZ2217


Archaeological Materials
This module introduces you to the ways in which material from archaeological excavations can be used to investigate past and present societies. You will have the opportunity undertake your own research project.


Module code
FZ2219
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Hunter-gatherers: Past and Present
In this module you will look at key issues in hunter-gatherer research in relation to both past and present societies and will explore the variety and diversity of its existence in both the past and present at both a practical and theoretical level.


Module code
FZ2207


Geometrics
You'll learn about field collection, processing and reporting of geospatial and geophysical data. You will develop field research, computer analysis and data interpretation skills. You will gather data relevant to a range of archaeological, environmental, and investigative case studies. You'll learn geophysical survey techniques and topographic survey.


Module code
FZ2213


Archaeology and Anthropology of Animals
In this module you will be introduced to the fundamentals of archaeology and anthropology in the study of animals. It will involve a mixture of lectures, lab practicals and discussion seminars.


Module code
FZ2214


The Archaeology of Death and the Dead Body
Our module will provide you with an underpinning knowledge in mortuary archaeology with a particular focus on encounters with death and the dead body. You will partake in a mixture of lectures and seminars, which will explore contemporary themes in archaeology through a range of case studies.


Module code
FZ2215


World Archaeology and Art
You'll learn about the study of art in the archaeological record. You'll critique the definition of art within prehistoric, non-western, and contemporary societies. You'll explore rock-art, portable art, body art, graffiti, art, and technology. You'll use Virtual Reality to explore art in an immersive environment.


Module code
FZ2216


Themes in British Archaeology 1
In this module you will examine a range of key issues and themes in British archaeological research and occasionally the wider international setting. You will gain an understanding of the chronology of different archaeological time periods, current debates relating to British archaeology and some of the most recent developments in this field.


Module code
FZ2218


Introduction to Professional Practice
You'll explore modern commercial archaeology, including practices, techniques, and philosophies. You'll enhance your fieldwork skills, delve into project management, and learn about post-excavation. Learning alongside professionals, you'll encounter real work scenarios when possible.


Module code
FZ2220
Dissertation
The aim of this module is to develop an independent piece of primary research of relevance to your course. You'll present your ideas, work, and conclusions in a range of appropriate ways that are transferable to the workplace.


Module code
FZ3202


Debates in Anthropology
This module expands on your prior knowledge, and you'll lead seminars based on current research. It provides an intellectual framework to grasp anthropologists' diverse approaches to understanding human social behaviour and cultural diversity.


Module code
FZ3212
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Hunter-Gatherers: Past and Present
In this module you will examine a range of key issues in hunter-gatherer research in relation to both past and present societies. You will explore the variety and diversity of hunter-gatherer existence and look for useful comparisons between past and present societies at a practical and theoretical level, which will be addressed through a variety of case studies.


Module code
FZ3203


Introduction to Professional Practice
You'll study working practices, techniques, and philosophies underpinning modern commercial archaeological practice. Module teaching collaborates with professional archaeologists to build fieldwork skills. The aim is to create competent professional archaeologists.


Module code
FZ3206


Geomatics
This module will develop your skills in field research, computer analysis and data interpretation. This module will prepare you for future research projects. You will learn to collect field data in an archaeological environmental and investigative case studies. You will also learn to use Geographical Information Systems software.


Module code
FZ3213


Archaeology and Anthropology of Animals
This module will provide you with the principles of archaeological and anthropological study of animals, focusing on animal remains and human interaction with animals. You'll gain practical skills in the laboratory where you'll physically identify and analyse animal remains. The key themes and analysis of zooarchaeology will also be introduced, including domestication and animals as a means of symbolic expression.


Module code
FZ3214


The Archaeology of Death and the Dead Body
You'll gain a grounding in mortuary archaeology, biological anthropology, and osteoarchaeology. You'll explore displaying the dead, cemetery organisation, and social patterns. You'll learn about practical circumstances in the workplace and explore ethics and issues. The module analyses death in society both ancient and modern.


Module code
FZ3215


World Archaeology and Art
You'll learn about the study of art in the archaeological record. You will be exposed to critical views on the definition of art and its applicability within prehistoric, non-western, and contemporary societies. You'll explore rock-art, portable art, body art, graffiti, art, and technology and develop an appreciation of wider themes. Virtual Reality will help you to investigate art in an immersive environment.


Module code
FZ3216


Field Archaeology 3
This module builds on your prior knowledge of archaeological fieldwork. You will develop skills needed to contribute to commercial or research excavations without direct supervision. You will have a four-week placement on an archaeological research project and will develop transferable team-working and time and work management skills.


Module code
FZ3217


Themes in British Archaeology 2
In this module you will examine the issues in British archaeology. You will develop an understanding in British archaeology and be aware of some of the most recent ideas and developments in the field.


Module code
FZ3218


Applied Forensic Anthropology: Taphonomy and Human Remains Recovery
During this module you'll build on your knowledge of human skeletal anatomy, introducing key forensic aspects of the mechanical properties of bone and post-mortem bone modification. The module will aim to address issues of scientific taphonomic investigation outside the areas of post-mortem interval estimation and decomposition studies. Laboratory and field based exercises will allow you to put these theoretical concepts into practice with the emphasis on problem solving, applied practical skills and evaluative writing.


Module code
FZ3300
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Graduates looking to pursue a career in archaeology have gone on to work for contracting archaeological organisations and museums all over the world.


Those with an interest in anthropology have gone on to pursue roles in museums, conservation, heritage management and other graduate-level careers.


Read less
A high proportion of our graduates work in the public and not-for-profit sectors, such as the civil service, local and central government, charities, universities, international and voluntary organisations, or museums. Others have undertaken research degrees.


There are more archaeological career opportunities available in the UK than you might think – according to the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA), the archaeological profession provides more than 6,000 jobs contributing over £100 million to the UK economy every year.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year


Archaeology
ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
3 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
V400
DELIVERY
In Person
Our Archaeology course is jointly accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) and the University Archaeology UK group (UAUK). You'll experience hands-on fieldwork which draws on humanities, social sciences and core science - an ideal start to your career.


Read lessabout the Archaeology course
Archaeology is a multidisciplinary practical degree. It produces graduates with sought-after transferable skills, including critical analysis, communication and team working. From week one, you will be in the field learning these skills on a real archaeological excavation. You'll examine and interpret various evidence from human remains, Palaeolithic stone tools, Anglo-Saxon jewellery and the latest ancient DNA evidence.


As well as lectures and tutorials, you'll spend time each year on placement in the UK and/or abroad, working on excavations, making real discoveries and helping carry out cutting-edge research. Our graduates have been on digs at Avebury and Stonehenge in Wiltshire, Neolithic settlements and tombs in Orkney and an Anglo-Saxon cemetery in Cambridgeshire, to name but a few.


It's a wide-ranging and practically based degree that allows you to gain vital experience and build contacts with working archaeologists. With the mixture of academic understanding, practical skills and fieldwork experience, you'll be one step closer to a career in archaeology, museums or academia.
What you’ll do
You’ll have the flexibility to delve into the specialist areas that interest you most, with optional units in everything from cultural anthropology to human remains.
We have an experienced team of research-active staff, with an excellent staff-student ratio – ensuring you’ll have plenty of personal support and attention.
With the addition of a major research project, you can convert your degree to the four-year MSci qualification.
Compulsory modules
These modules are set and you have to study these as part of your course.




The Archaeology of Britain
This module is designed to introduce you to the archaeology of the British Isles. It will begin with the evidence for the first inhabitants of Britain in the Palaeolithic and works through to the Industrial Revolution. It also encourages you to develop your communication skills, problem solving skills and skills in assessing information.


Module code
FZ1201


History of Archaeological Thought
You will be introduced to the development of archaeology as an interpretive discipline. The module shows key theoretical shifts through time. As well as introduces key figures and sites which have shaped the discipline. You’ll develop verbal and oral communication skills, problem solving skills and skills in accessing information.


Module code
FZ1203


Bones, Bodies and Burial
Our module will introduce you to archaeology and anthropology of death through a series of case studies exploring different kinds of relevant evidence. You will study both biological and social data to understand the range of past human responses to death.


Module code
FZ1205


Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
In this module you will be introduced to the basic principles and methods of social and cultural anthropology. The module will give you an introduction to the history of the discipline, to anthropological methods and the distinctiveness of the anthropological study of modern society.


Module code
FZ1206


Field Archaeology 1
The module aims to introduce you to the core skills in field archaeology and academic archaeological study. The module will give you the technical skills you need to study and undertake field archaeology and will provide an opportunity for working as part of a group whilst developing your academic skills.


Module code
FZ1207
Thinking about the past: Archaeological Theory
The aim of this module is to understand different ways of interpreting the archaeological record. It aims to show how archaeological theory works in practice through case studies. You'll use archaeological theory to inform and integrate your reading and writing.


Module code
FZ2206


Field Archaeology 2
In this module you will gain the knowledge and skills needed to study archaeological research projects in a team. During the project you will be tested under new pressures and challenges of excavation.


Module code
FZ2217


Themes in British Archaeology 1
In this module you will examine a range of key issues and themes in British archaeological research and occasionally the wider international setting. You will gain an understanding of the chronology of different archaeological time periods, current debates relating to British archaeology and some of the most recent developments in this field.


Module code
FZ2218


Archaeological Materials
This module introduces you to the ways in which material from archaeological excavations can be used to investigate past and present societies. You will have the opportunity undertake your own research project.


Module code
FZ2219
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Forensic Anthropology
The module explores archaeological and forensic aspects of human remains recovery. You'll learn about human anatomy and skeletal biology. You'll identify physical characteristics, age, race, and sex of human skeletons. The module also examines injuries, pathology, and causes of death.


Module code
FZ2051


Hunter-gatherers: Past and Present
In this module you will look at key issues in hunter-gatherer research in relation to both past and present societies and will explore the variety and diversity of its existence in both the past and present at both a practical and theoretical level.


Module code
FZ2207


Geometrics
You'll learn about field collection, processing and reporting of geospatial and geophysical data. You will develop field research, computer analysis and data interpretation skills. You will gather data relevant to a range of archaeological, environmental, and investigative case studies. You'll learn geophysical survey techniques and topographic survey.


Module code
FZ2213


Archaeology and Anthropology of Animals
In this module you will be introduced to the fundamentals of archaeology and anthropology in the study of animals. It will involve a mixture of lectures, lab practicals and discussion seminars.


Module code
FZ2214


The Archaeology of Death and the Dead Body
Our module will provide you with an underpinning knowledge in mortuary archaeology with a particular focus on encounters with death and the dead body. You will partake in a mixture of lectures and seminars, which will explore contemporary themes in archaeology through a range of case studies.


Module code
FZ2215


World Archaeology and Art
You'll learn about the study of art in the archaeological record. You'll critique the definition of art within prehistoric, non-western, and contemporary societies. You'll explore rock-art, portable art, body art, graffiti, art, and technology. You'll use Virtual Reality to explore art in an immersive environment.


Module code
FZ2216


Introduction to Professional Practice
You'll explore modern commercial archaeology, including practices, techniques, and philosophies. You'll enhance your fieldwork skills, delve into project management, and learn about post-excavation. Learning alongside professionals, you'll encounter real work scenarios when possible.


Module code
FZ2220
Dissertation
The aim of this module is to develop an independent piece of primary research of relevance to your course. You'll present your ideas, work, and conclusions in a range of appropriate ways that are transferable to the workplace.


Module code
FZ3202


Field Archaeology 3
This module builds on your prior knowledge of archaeological fieldwork. You will develop skills needed to contribute to commercial or research excavations without direct supervision. You will have a four-week placement on an archaeological research project and will develop transferable team-working and time and work management skills.


Module code
FZ3217


Themes in British Archaeology 2
In this module you will examine the issues in British archaeology. You will develop an understanding in British archaeology and be aware of some of the most recent ideas and developments in the field.


Module code
FZ3218
Optional modules
Depending on how many compulsory modules you take, you may be able to choose optional modules to make up your course.




Hunter-Gatherers: Past and Present
In this module you will examine a range of key issues in hunter-gatherer research in relation to both past and present societies. You will explore the variety and diversity of hunter-gatherer existence and look for useful comparisons between past and present societies at a practical and theoretical level, which will be addressed through a variety of case studies.


Module code
FZ3203


Introduction to Professional Practice
You'll study working practices, techniques, and philosophies underpinning modern commercial archaeological practice. Module teaching collaborates with professional archaeologists to build fieldwork skills. The aim is to create competent professional archaeologists.


Module code
FZ3206


Geomatics
This module will develop your skills in field research, computer analysis and data interpretation. This module will prepare you for future research projects. You will learn to collect field data in an archaeological environmental and investigative case studies. You will also learn to use Geographical Information Systems software.


Module code
FZ3213


Archaeology and Anthropology of Animals
This module will provide you with the principles of archaeological and anthropological study of animals, focusing on animal remains and human interaction with animals. You'll gain practical skills in the laboratory where you'll physically identify and analyse animal remains. The key themes and analysis of zooarchaeology will also be introduced, including domestication and animals as a means of symbolic expression.


Module code
FZ3214


The Archaeology of Death and the Dead Body
You'll gain a grounding in mortuary archaeology, biological anthropology, and osteoarchaeology. You'll explore displaying the dead, cemetery organisation, and social patterns. You'll learn about practical circumstances in the workplace and explore ethics and issues. The module analyses death in society both ancient and modern.


Module code
FZ3215


World Archaeology and Art
You'll learn about the study of art in the archaeological record. You will be exposed to critical views on the definition of art and its applicability within prehistoric, non-western, and contemporary societies. You'll explore rock-art, portable art, body art, graffiti, art, and technology and develop an appreciation of wider themes. Virtual Reality will help you to investigate art in an immersive environment.


Module code
FZ3216


Applied Forensic Anthropology: Taphonomy and Human Remains Recovery
During this module you'll build on your knowledge of human skeletal anatomy, introducing key forensic aspects of the mechanical properties of bone and post-mortem bone modification. The module will aim to address issues of scientific taphonomic investigation outside the areas of post-mortem interval estimation and decomposition studies. Laboratory and field based exercises will allow you to put these theoretical concepts into practice with the emphasis on problem solving, applied practical skills and evaluative writing.


Module code
FZ3300
Course delivery
Following the pandemic, we have found that some courses benefit from a blended learning and teaching approach. Therefore, the majority of your teaching will be face-to-face on campus aside from a small amount of online teaching where we have learnt it works best.


95%
Face-to-face
5%
Online
Please note the delivery information for this course is accurate for the academic year 2023/24. The information displayed in this section may not yet accurately reflect how the course will be delivered in 2024/25 but this information will be updated by December 2023.


Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information. However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development. Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses. Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements. As well as to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback. We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Future careers
Our BSc (Hons) Archaeology course offers the specialist knowledge and hands-on skills you’ll need to explore a career in this fascinating profession.


Read less
Archaeology offers more career opportunities in the UK than some might think. It’s a profession that provides more than 5,000 jobs, in over 200 companies and contributes over £100m to the UK economy every year, in both the public and the private sector. Historic England have highlighted the need for more trained archaeologists over the next 17 years, due to the surge in major infrastructure projects.


Today, you’ll find our Archaeology graduates working for a number of different contracting archaeological organisations, while others are working in museums or doing research degrees at a variety of UK universities. With the wide range of desirable transferrable skills our course offers, our graduates have also excelled in other career paths, including teaching, research companies or other areas.


You could also use this course as a foundation for further study. While this degree offers the chance to step up to an integrated master’s, with an extra year’s research, you could also take on a separate postgraduate qualification after you graduate.
Fees and funding
2024/25
UK
Full-time
£9,250 per year
Part-time
£1,540 per 20 credits
International
Full-time
£16,500 per year
MSci  Archaeology


ATTENDANCE


Full-time
CAMPUS


Preston Campus
START


September 2024
Book an Open Day


DURATION
4 Years
START
September 2024
UCAS CODE
V401
DELIVERY
In Person
Accredited by both the Chartered Institute for Archaeology and University Archaeology UK, with hands-on fieldwork at its core, MSci Archaeology is designed to be the ideal start to a professional archaeology career.


Read lessabout the Archaeology course
Archaeology is a multidisciplinary practical degree. It produces graduates with sought-after transferable skills including critical analysis, communication and team working.


From week one you will be in the field learning these skills on a real archaeological excavation. During the degree you’ll examine and interpret a variety of evidence from human remains, Palaeolithic stone tools, Anglo-Saxon jewellery and the latest ancient DNA evidence.


As well as lectures and tutorials, you’ll spend time each year on placement in the UK and/or abroad, working on excavations, making real discoveries and helping carry out cutting-edge research. Our graduates have been on digs at Avebury and Stonehenge in Wiltshire, Neolithic settlements and tombs in Orkney and an Anglo-Saxon cemetery in Cambridgeshire, to name but a few.


In the fourth year the MSci students transition to a supervisor role, experiencing day-to-day management of an archaeological project. In addition, they undertake a major piece of independent research often involving their own field or laboratory work. With the mixture of academic understanding, practical skills and fieldwork experience, the MSci in Archaeology is ideal for those seeking a career in archaeology.
What you’ll do
You’ll have the flexibility to delve into the specialist areas that interest you most, with option units in everything from cultural anthropology to human remains.
We have an experienced team of research-active staff, with an excellent staff-student ratio – ensuring you’ll have plenty of personal support and attention.
Your learning will be assessed through real-life projects, such as client reports, radio broadcasts and articles that help build your skills rather than end of year exams.


Degree Apprenticeships
Our range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to gain an academic qualification and degree whilst you work.
What is a Degree Apprenticeship?
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to study for a qualification while working for your employer. A Degree Apprenticeship allows you to graduate with an honours or master’s degree. A Higher Apprenticeship will grant you a professional qualification equal to a foundation degree.


Read less
By mixing study time with real-world experience, you can earn an apprenticeship wage while you study. You'll also graduate without a student loan and gain in-demand skills to advance your career. We develop our courses with leading businesses across the North West, meeting government standards. 
Is a Degree Apprenticeship right for me?
A Degree Apprenticeship allows you to earn a full-time wage without having to pay your fees.
You can apply your theoretical study to first-hand experience in the world of work.
Gain in-demand skills whilst progressing in your career professionally.
Degrees that are tailored to you. They are flexible and can be all about what you want to gain from your degree and work experience.
You can benefit from paid time off, should you need it for study.
Enjoy the best of both worlds. You'll be entitled to paid time off and all the benefits of being a student at the University. These include access to our state-of-the-art facilities and student discounts.
How to get a Degree Apprenticeship


Secure a role
First, you need to secure a relevant role for at least 30 contracted hours a week. This could be the current role that you're in. The role must be relevant to the apprenticeship, because you will be spending four days a week in the workplace.


If you are not currently in a relevant role, you will need to start applying for role that are relevant to the apprenticeship. If you're struggling to find a position, you can register for our Apprenticeship Matching Service. This can match you with employers who want to recruit an apprentice. Explore our current vacancies.
Get your employer's support
Once you've secured a relevant role, the next step is to ask your line manager about the Degree Apprenticeship you are interested in. All Degree Apprenticeships are funded by employers, so it's essential to get your employer's support. You employer may receive funds from the government.


If you have got a role through our Apprenticeship Matching Service, the employer will be recruiting specifically for an apprentice. That means they will definitely support your Degree Apprenticeship.
Contact our Business Development team
Once you've got your employer’s support, they will need to contact our Business Development team. Our team will answer any questions they have and begin the onboarding process.


If you've got a job through our Apprenticeship Matching Service, we will already be working closely with your employer. That means the onboarding process can begin.
Begin Degree Apprenticeship
Once we've received your application and all relevant documents, your Degree Apprenticeship can begin. You'll normally spend 4 days a week in work and 1 day a week studying.


Find an apprenticeship course